Record #1 of 54
ID: CD002098
AU: Flodgren Gerd
AU: Rachas Antoine
AU: Farmer Andrew J
AU: Inzitari Marco
AU: Shepperd Sasha
TI: Interactive telemedicine: effects on professional practice and health care outcomes
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 9
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Communication;Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care);Physician-Patient Relations;Practice Patterns, Physicians';Diabetes Mellitus [therapy];Heart Failure [therapy];Mental Disorders [therapy];Monitoring, Physiologic [methods];Telemedicine [methods];Videoconferencing;Humans[checkword]
CC: EPOC
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002098.pub2
AB: Background: Telemedicine (TM) is the use of telecommunication systems to deliver health care at a distance. It has the potential to improve patient health outcomes, access to health care and reduce healthcare costs. As TM applications continue to evolve it is important to understand the impact TM might have on patients, healthcare professionals and the organisation of care.Objectives: To assess the effectiveness, acceptability and costs of interactive TM as an alternative to, or in addition to, usual care (i.e. face-to-face care, or telephone consultation).Search methods: We searched the Effective Practice and Organisation of Care (EPOC) Group's specialised register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, five other databases and two trials registers to June 2013, together with reference checking, citation searching, handsearching and contact with study authors to identify additional studies.Selection criteria: We considered randomised controlled trials of interactive TM that involved direct patient-provider interaction and was delivered in addition to, or substituting for, usual care compared with usual care alone, to participants with any clinical condition. We excluded telephone only interventions and wholly automatic self-management TM interventions.Data collection and analysis: For each condition, we pooled outcome data that were sufficiently homogenous using fixed effect meta-analysis. We reported risk ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for dichotomous outcomes, and mean differences (MD) for continuous outcomes.Main results: We included 93 eligible trials (N = 22,047 participants), which evaluated the effectiveness of interactive TM delivered in addition to (32% of studies), as an alternative to (57% of studies), or partly substituted for usual care (11%) as compared to usual care alone.The included studies recruited patients with the following clinical conditions: cardiovascular disease (36), diabetes (21), respiratory conditions (9), mental health or substance abuse conditions (7), conditions requiring a specialist consultation (6), co morbidities (3), urogenital conditions (3), neurological injuries and conditions (2), gastrointestinal conditions (2), neonatal conditions requiring specialist care (2), solid organ transplantation (1), and cancer (1).Telemedicine provided remote monitoring (55 studies), or real-time video-conferencing (38 studies), which was used either alone or in combination. The main TM function varied depending on clinical condition, but fell typically into one of the following six categories, with some overlap: i) monitoring of a chronic condition to detect early signs of deterioration and prompt treatment and advice, (41); ii) provision of treatment or rehabilitation (12), for example the delivery of cognitive behavioural therapy, or incontinence training; iii) education and advice for self-management (23), for example nurses delivering education to patients with diabetes or providing support to parents of very low birth weight infants or to patients with home parenteral nutrition; iv) specialist consultations for diagnosis and treatment decisions (8), v) real-time assessment of clinical status, for example post-operative assessment after minor operation or follow-up after solid organ transplantation (8) vi), screening, for angina (1).The type of data transmitted by the patient, the frequency of data transfer, (e.g. telephone, e-mail, SMS) and frequency of interactions between patient and healthcare provider varied across studies, as did the type of healthcare provider/s and healthcare system involved in delivering the intervention.We found no difference between groups for all-cause mortality for patients with heart failure (16 studies; N = 5239; RR:0.89, 95% CI 0.76 to 1.03, P = 0.12; I2 = 44%) (moderate to high certainty of evidence) at a median of six months follow-up. Admissions to hospital (11 studies; N = 4529) ranged from a decrease of 64% to an increase of 60% at median eight months follow-up (moderate certainty of evidence). We found some evidence of improved quality of life (five studies; N = 482; MD:-4.39, 95% CI -7.94 to -0.83; P < 0.02; I2 = 0%) (moderate certainty of evidence) for those allocated to TM as compared with usual care at a median three months follow-up. In studies recruiting participants with diabetes (16 studies; N = 2768) we found lower glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c %) levels in those allocated to TM than in controls (MD -0.31, 95% CI -0.37 to -0.24; P < 0.00001; I2= 42%, P = 0.04) (high certainty of evidence) at a median of nine months follow-up. We found some evidence for a decrease in LDL (four studies, N = 1692; MD -12.45, 95% CI -14.23 to -10.68; P < 0.00001; I2 = 0%) (moderate certainty of evidence), and blood pressure (four studies, N = 1770: MD: SBP:-4.33, 95% CI -5.30 to -3.35, P < 0.00001; I2 = 17%; DBP: -2.75 95% CI -3.28 to -2.22, P < 0.00001; I2 = 45% (moderate certainty evidence), in TM as compared with usual care.Seven studies that recruited participants with different mental health and substance abuse problems, reported no differences in the effect of therapy delivered over video-conferencing, as compared to face-to-face delivery. Findings from the other studies were inconsistent; there was some evidence that monitoring via TM improved blood pressure control in participants with hypertension, and a few studies reported improved symptom scores for those with a respiratory condition. Studies recruiting participants requiring mental health services and those requiring specialist consultation for a dermatological condition reported no differences between groups.Authors' conclusions: The findings in our review indicate that the use of TM in the management of heart failure appears to lead to similar health outcomes as face-to-face or telephone delivery of care; there is evidence that TM can improve the control of blood glucose in those with diabetes. The cost to a health service, and acceptability by patients and healthcare professionals, is not clear due to limited data reported for these outcomes. The effectiveness of TM may depend on a number of different factors, including those related to the study population e.g. the severity of the condition and the disease trajectory of the participants, the function of the intervention e.g., if it is used for monitoring a chronic condition, or to provide access to diagnostic services, as well as the healthcare provider and healthcare system involved in delivering the intervention.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD002098.pub2/abstract


Record #2 of 54
ID: CD000011
AU: Nieuwlaat Robby
AU: Wilczynski Nancy
AU: Navarro Tamara
AU: Hobson Nicholas
AU: Jeffery Rebecca
AU: Keepanasseril Arun
AU: Agoritsas Thomas
AU: Mistry Niraj
AU: Iorio Alfonso
AU: Jack Susan
AU: Sivaramalingam Bhairavi
AU: Iserman Emma
AU: Mustafa Reem A
AU: Jedraszewski Dawn
AU: Cotoi Chris
AU: Haynes R. Brian
TI: Interventions for enhancing medication adherence
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 11
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Drug Therapy;Medication Adherence;Patient Education as Topic;Publication Bias;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Self Administration;Humans[checkword]
CC: COMMUN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD000011.pub4
AB: Background: People who are prescribed self administered medications typically take only about half their prescribed doses. Efforts to assist patients with adherence to medications might improve the benefits of prescribed medications.Objectives: The primary objective of this review is to assess the effects of interventions intended to enhance patient adherence to prescribed medications for medical conditions, on both medication adherence and clinical outcomes.Search methods: We updated searches of The Cochrane Library, including CENTRAL (via http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/cochranelibrary/search/), MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO (all via Ovid), CINAHL (via EBSCO), and Sociological Abstracts (via ProQuest) on 11 January 2013 with no language restriction. We also reviewed bibliographies in articles on patient adherence, and contacted authors of relevant original and review articles.Selection criteria: We included unconfounded RCTs of interventions to improve adherence with prescribed medications, measuring both medication adherence and clinical outcome, with at least 80% follow-up of each group studied and, for long-term treatments, at least six months follow-up for studies with positive findings at earlier time points.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently extracted all data and a third author resolved disagreements. The studies differed widely according to medical condition, patient population, intervention, measures of adherence, and clinical outcomes. Pooling results according to one of these characteristics still leaves highly heterogeneous groups, and we could not justify meta-analysis. Instead, we conducted a qualitative analysis with a focus on the RCTs with the lowest risk of bias for study design and the primary clinical outcome.Main results: The present update included 109 new RCTs published since the previous update in January 2007, bringing the total number of RCTs to 182; we found five RCTs from the previous update to be ineligible and excluded them. Studies were heterogeneous for patients, medical problems, treatment regimens, adherence interventions, and adherence and clinical outcome measurements, and most had high risk of bias. The main changes in comparison with the previous update include that we now: 1) report a lack of convincing evidence also specifically among the studies with the lowest risk of bias; 2) do not try to classify studies according to intervention type any more, due to the large heterogeneity; 3) make our database available for collaboration on sub-analyses, in acknowledgement of the need to make collective advancement in this difficult field of research. Of all 182 RCTs, 17 had the lowest risk of bias for study design features and their primary clinical outcome, 11 from the present update and six from the previous update. The RCTs at lowest risk of bias generally involved complex interventions with multiple components, trying to overcome barriers to adherence by means of tailored ongoing support from allied health professionals such as pharmacists, who often delivered intense education, counseling (including motivational interviewing or cognitive behavioral therapy by professionals) or daily treatment support (or both), and sometimes additional support from family or peers. Only five of these RCTs reported improvements in both adherence and clinical outcomes, and no common intervention characteristics were apparent. Even the most effective interventions did not lead to large improvements in adherence or clinical outcomes.Authors' conclusions: Across the body of evidence, effects were inconsistent from study to study, and only a minority of lowest risk of bias RCTs improved both adherence and clinical outcomes. Current methods of improving medication adherence for chronic health problems are mostly complex and not very effective, so that the full benefits of treatment cannot be realized. The research in this field needs advances, including improved design of feasible long-term interventions, objective adherence measures, and sufficient study power to detect improvements in patient-important clinical outcomes. By making our comprehensive database available for sharing we hope to contribute to achieving these advances.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD000011.pub4/abstract


Record #3 of 54
ID: CD005028
AU: Mason Anne R
AU: Mason James
AU: Cork Michael
AU: Dooley Gordon
AU: Hancock Helen
TI: Topical treatments for chronic plaque psoriasis
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2013
NO: 3
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Administration, Topical;Adrenal Cortex Hormones [adverse effects] [therapeutic use];Bone Density Conservation Agents [adverse effects] [therapeutic use];Chronic Disease;Facial Dermatoses [drug therapy];Psoriasis [drug therapy];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Scalp Dermatoses [drug therapy];Vitamin D [adverse effects] [analogs & derivatives] [therapeutic use];Humans[checkword]
CC: SKIN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005028.pub3
AB: Background: Chronic plaque psoriasis is the most common type of psoriasis, and it is characterised by redness, thickness, and scaling. First-line management of chronic plaque psoriasis is with topical treatments, including vitamin D analogues, topical corticosteroids, tar-based preparations, dithranol, salicylic acid, and topical retinoids.Objectives: To compare the effectiveness, tolerability, and safety of topical treatments for chronic plaque psoriasis, relative to placebo, and to similarly compare vitamin D analogues (used alone or in combination) with other topical treatments.Search methods: We updated our searches of the following databases to February 2011: the Cochrane Skin Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL in The Cochrane Library (2011, Issue 2), MEDLINE (from 1948), EMBASE (from 1980), Science Citation Index (from 2008), Conference Proceedings Citation Index - Science (from 2008), BIOSIS (from 1993), Dissertation Abstracts via DialogClassic (all publication years), and Inside Conferences (all publication years).We identified ongoing and unpublished studies from the UK Clinical Research Network Study Portfolio and the metaRegister of Controlled Trials. We checked the bibliographies of published studies and reviews for further references to relevant trials, and we contacted trialists and companies for information about newly published studies.A separate search for adverse effects was undertaken in February 2011 using MEDLINE and EMBASE (from 2005).Final update searches for both RCTs and adverse effects were undertaken in August 2012. Although it has not been possible to incorporate RCTs and adverse effects studies identified through these final searches within this review, we will incorporate these into the next update.Selection criteria: Randomised trials comparing active topical treatments against placebo or against vitamin D analogues (used alone or in combination) in people with chronic plaque psoriasis.Data collection and analysis: One author extracted study data and assessed study quality. A second author checked these data. We routinely contacted trialists and companies for missing data. We also extracted data on withdrawals and on local and systemic adverse events. We defined long-term trials as those with a duration of at least 24 weeks.Main results: This update added 48 trials and provided evidence on 7 new active treatments. In total, the review included 177 randomised controlled trials, with 34,808 participants, including 26 trials of scalp psoriasis and 6 trials of inverse psoriasis, facial psoriasis, or both. The number of included studies counted by Review Manager (RevMan) is higher than these figures (190) because we entered each study reporting a placebo and an active comparison into the 'Characteristics of included studies' table as 2 studies.When used on the body, most vitamin D analogues were significantly more effective than placebo, with the standardised mean difference (SMD) ranging from -0.67 (95% CI -1.04 to -0.30; 1 study, 119 participants) for twice-daily becocalcidiol to SMD -1.66 (95% CI -2.66 to -0.67; 1 study, 11 participants) for once-daily paricalcitol. On a 6-point global improvement scale, these effects translate into 0.8 and 1.9 points, respectively. Most corticosteroids also performed better than placebo; potent corticosteroids (SMD -0.89; 95% CI -1.06 to -0.72; I² statistic = 65.1%; 14 studies, 2011 participants) had smaller benefits than very potent corticosteroids (SMD -1.56; 95% CI -1.87 to -1.26); I² statistic = 81.7%; 10 studies, 1264 participants). On a 6-point improvement scale, these benefits equate to 1.0 and 1.8 points, respectively. Dithranol, combined treatment with vitamin D/corticosteroid, and tazarotene all performed significantly better than placebo.Head-to-head comparisons of vitamin D for psoriasis of the body against potent or very potent corticosteroids had mixed findings. For both body and scalp psoriasis, combined treatment with vitamin D and corticosteroid performed significantly better than vitamin D alone or corticosteroid alone. Vitamin D generally performed better than coal tar, but findings relative to dithranol were mixed. When applied to psoriasis of the scalp, vitamin D was significantly less effective than both potent corticosteroids and very potent corticosteroids. Indirect evidence from placebo-controlled trials supported these findings.For both body and scalp psoriasis, potent corticosteroids were less likely than vitamin D to cause local adverse events, such as burning or irritation. Combined treatment with vitamin D/corticosteroid on either the body or the scalp was tolerated as well as potent corticosteroids, and significantly better than vitamin D alone. Only 25 trials assessed clinical cutaneous dermal atrophy; few cases were detected, but trials reported insufficient information to determine whether assessment methods were robust. Clinical measurements of dermal atrophy are insensitive and detect only the most severe cases. No comparison of topical agents found a significant difference in systemic adverse effects.Authors' conclusions: Corticosteroids perform at least as well as vitamin D analogues, and they are associated with a lower incidence of local adverse events. However, for people with chronic plaque psoriasis receiving long-term treatment with corticosteroids, there remains a lack of evidence about the risk of skin dermal atrophy. Further research is required to inform long-term maintenance treatment and provide appropriate safety data.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD005028.pub3/abstract


Record #4 of 54
ID: CD006876
AU: Mehrholz Jan
AU: Pohl Marcus
AU: Platz Thomas
AU: Kugler Joachim
AU: Elsner Bernhard
TI: Electromechanical and robot-assisted arm training for improving activities of daily living, arm function, and arm muscle strength after stroke
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 11
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Activities of Daily Living;Artificial Limbs;Recovery of Function;Robotics;Upper Extremity;Exercise Therapy [instrumentation] [methods];Muscle Strength [physiology];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Stroke [physiopathology] [rehabilitation];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
CC: STROKE
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006876.pub4
AB: Background: Electromechanical and robot-assisted arm training devices are used in rehabilitation, and may help to improve arm function after stroke.Objectives: To assess the effectiveness of electromechanical and robot-assisted arm training for improving activities of daily living, arm function, and arm muscle strength in people after stroke. We also assessed the acceptability and safety of the therapy.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group's Trials Register (last searched February 2015), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (the Cochrane Library 2015, Issue 3), MEDLINE (1950 to March 2015), EMBASE (1980 to March 2015), CINAHL (1982 to March 2015), AMED (1985 to March 2015), SPORTDiscus (1949 to March 2015), PEDro (searched April 2015), Compendex (1972 to March 2015), and Inspec (1969 to March 2015). We also handsearched relevant conference proceedings, searched trials and research registers, checked reference lists, and contacted trialists, experts, and researchers in our field, as well as manufacturers of commercial devices.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials comparing electromechanical and robot-assisted arm training for recovery of arm function with other rehabilitation or placebo interventions, or no treatment, for people after stroke.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently selected trials for inclusion, assessed trial quality and risk of bias, and extracted data. We contacted trialists for additional information. We analysed the results as standardised mean differences (SMDs) for continuous variables and risk differences (RDs) for dichotomous variables.Main results: We included 34 trials (involving 1160 participants) in this update of our review. Electromechanical and robot-assisted arm training improved activities of daily living scores (SMD 0.37, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.11 to 0.64, P = 0.005, I² = 62%), arm function (SMD 0.35, 95% CI 0.18 to 0.51, P < 0.0001, I² = 36%), and arm muscle strength (SMD 0.36, 95% CI 0.01 to 0.70, P = 0.04, I² = 72%), but the quality of the evidence was low to very low. Electromechanical and robot-assisted arm training did not increase the risk of participant drop-out (RD 0.00, 95% CI -0.02 to 0.03, P = 0.84, I² = 0%) with moderate-quality evidence, and adverse events were rare.Authors' conclusions: People who receive electromechanical and robot-assisted arm and hand training after stroke might improve their activities of daily living, arm and hand function, and arm and hand muscle strength. However, the results must be interpreted with caution because the quality of the evidence was low to very low, and there were variations between the trials in the intensity, duration, and amount of training; type of treatment; and participant characteristics.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD006876.pub4/abstract


Record #5 of 54
ID: CD009445
AU: Kinnersley Paul
AU: Phillips Katie
AU: Savage Katherine
AU: Kelly Mark J
AU: Farrell Elinor
AU: Morgan Ben
AU: Whistance Robert
AU: Lewis Vicky
AU: Mann Mala K
AU: Stephens Bethan L
AU: Blazeby Jane
AU: Elwyn Glyn
AU: Edwards Adrian GK
TI: Interventions to promote informed consent for patients undergoing surgical and other invasive healthcare procedures
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2013
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Surgical Procedures, Operative;Decision Support Techniques;Endoscopy;Informed Consent [statistics & numerical data];Pamphlets;Patient Education as Topic [methods];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Teaching Materials;Humans[checkword]
CC: COMMUN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009445.pub2
AB: Background: Achieving informed consent is a core clinical procedure and is required before any surgical or invasive procedure is undertaken.  However, it is a complex process which requires patients be provided with information which they can understand and retain, opportunity to consider their options, and to be able to express their opinions and ask questions.  There is evidence that at present some patients undergo procedures without informed consent being achieved.Objectives: To assess the effects on patients, clinicians and the healthcare system of interventions to promote informed consent for patients undergoing surgical and other invasive healthcare treatments and procedures.Search methods: We searched the following databases using keywords and medical subject headings: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library, Issue 5, 2012), MEDLINE (OvidSP) (1950 to July 2011), EMBASE (OvidSP) (1980 to July 2011) and PsycINFO (OvidSP) (1806 to July 2011). We applied no language or date restrictions within the search. We also searched reference lists of included studies.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials and cluster randomised trials of interventions to promote informed consent for patients undergoing surgical and other invasive healthcare procedures. We considered an intervention to be intended to promote informed consent when information delivery about the procedure was enhanced (either by providing more information or through, for example, using new written materials), or if more opportunity to consider or deliberate on the information was provided.Data collection and analysis: Two authors assessed the search output independently to identify potentially-relevant studies, selected studies for inclusion, and extracted data. We conducted a narrative synthesis of the included trials, and meta-analyses of outcomes where there were sufficient data.Main results: We included 65 randomised controlled trials from 12 countries involving patients undergoing a variety of procedures in hospitals. Nine thousand and twenty one patients were randomised and entered into these studies. Interventions used various designs and formats but the main data for results were from studies using written materials, audio-visual materials and decision aids. Some interventions were delivered before admission to hospital for the procedure while others were delivered on admission.Only one study attempted to measure the primary outcome, which was informed consent as a unified concept, but this study was at high risk of bias.  More commonly, studies measured secondary outcomes which were individual components of informed consent such as knowledge, anxiety, and satisfaction with the consent process.  Important but less commonly-measured outcomes were deliberation, decisional conflict, uptake of procedures and length of consultation.Meta-analyses showed statistically-significant improvements in knowledge when measured immediately after interventions (SMD 0.53 (95% CI 0.37 to 0.69) I2 73%), shortly afterwards (between 24 hours and 14 days) (SMD 0.68 (95% CI 0.42 to 0.93) I2 85%) and at a later date (15 days or more) (SMD 0.78 (95% CI 0.50 to 1.06) I2 82%). Satisfaction with decision making was also increased (SMD 2.25 (95% CI 1.36 to 3.15) I2 99%) and decisional conflict was reduced (SMD -1.80 (95% CI -3.46 to -0.14) I2 99%). No statistically-significant differences were found for generalised anxiety (SMD -0.11 (95% CI -0.35 to 0.13) I2 82%), anxiety with the consent process (SMD 0.01 (95% CI -0.21 to 0.23) I2 70%) and satisfaction with the consent process (SMD 0.12 (95% CI -0.09 to 0.32) I2 76%). Consultation length was increased in those studies with continuous data (mean increase 1.66 minutes (95% CI 0.82 to 2.50) I2 0%) and in the one study with non-parametric data (control 8.0 minutes versus intervention 11.9 minutes, interquartile range (IQR) of 4 to 11.9 and 7.2 to 15.0 respectively). There were limited data for other outcomes.In general, sensitivity analyses removing studies at high risk of bias made little difference to the overall results. Authors' conclusions: Informed consent is an important ethical and practical part of patient care.  We have identified efforts by researchers to investigate interventions which seek to improve information delivery and consideration of information to enhance informed consent.  The interventions used consistently improve patient knowledge, an important prerequisite for informed consent.  This is encouraging and these measures could be widely employed although we are not able to say with confidence which types of interventions are preferable. Our results should be interpreted with caution due to the high levels of heterogeneity associated with many of the main analyses although we believe there is broad evidence of beneficial outcomes for patients with the pragmatic application of interventions. Only one study attempted to measure informed consent as a unified concept.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD009445.pub2/abstract


Record #6 of 54
ID: CD008416
AU: Ciciriello Sabina
AU: Johnston Renea V
AU: Osborne Richard H
AU: Wicks Ian
AU: deKroo Tanya
AU: Clerehan Rosemary
AU: O'Neill Clare
AU: Buchbinder Rachelle
TI: Multimedia educational interventions for consumers about prescribed and over-the-counter medications
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2013
NO: 4
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice;Multimedia;Medication Adherence;Nonprescription Drugs [therapeutic use];Patient Education as Topic [methods] [standards];Prescription Drugs [therapeutic use];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Humans[checkword]
CC: COMMUN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008416.pub2
AB: Background: Health consumers increasingly want access to accurate, evidence-based information about their medications. Currently, education about medications (that is, information that is designed to achieve health or illness related learning) is provided predominantly via spoken communication between the health provider and consumer, sometimes supplemented with written materials. There is evidence, however, that current educational methods are not meeting consumer needs. Multimedia educational programs offer many potential advantages over traditional forms of education delivery.Objectives: To assess the effects of multimedia patient education interventions about prescribed and over-the-counter medications in people of all ages, including children and carers.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library 2011, Issue 6), MEDLINE (1950 to June 2011), EMBASE (1974 to June 2011), CINAHL (1982 to June 2011), PsycINFO (1967 to June 2011), ERIC (1966 to June 2011), ProQuest Dissertation & Theses Database (to June 2011) and reference lists of articles.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs of multimedia-based patient education about prescribed or over-the-counter medications in people of all ages, including children and carers, if the intervention had been targeted for their use.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of included studies. Where possible, we contacted study authors to obtain missing information.Main results: We identified 24 studies that enrolled a total of 8112 participants. However, there was significant heterogeneity in the comparators used and the outcomes measured, which limited the ability to pool data. Many of the studies did not report sufficient information in their methods to allow judgment of their risk of bias. From the information that was reported, three of the studies had a high risk of selection bias and one was at high risk of bias due to lack of blinding of the outcome assessors. None of the included studies reported the minimum clinically important difference for the outcomes that were measured. We have therefore reported results from the studies but have been unable to interpret whether differences were of clinical importance.The main findings of the review are as follows.Knowledge: There is low quality evidence that multimedia education was more effective than usual care (non-standardised education provided as part of usual clinical care) or no education (standardised mean difference (SMD) 1.04, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.49 to1.58, six studies with 817 participants). There was considerable statistical heterogeneity (I2 = 89%), however, all but one of the studies favoured the multimedia group. There is moderate quality evidence that multimedia education was not more effective at improving knowledge than control multimedia interventions (i.e. multimedia programs that do not provide information about the medication) (mean difference (MD) of knowledge scores 2.78%, 95% CI -1.48 to 7.0, two studies with 568 participants). There is moderate quality evidence that multimedia education was more effective when added to a co-intervention (written information or brief standardised instructions provided by a health professional) compared with the co-intervention alone (MD of knowledge scores 24.59%, 95% CI 22.34 to 26.83, two studies with 381 participants).Skill acquisition: There is moderate quality evidence that multimedia education was more effective than usual care or no education (MD of inhaler technique score 18.32%, 95% CI 11.92 to 24.73, two studies with 94 participants) and written education (risk ratio (RR) of improved inhaler technique 2.14, 95% CI 1.33 to 3.44, two studies with 164 participants). There is very low quality evidence that multimedia education was equally effective as education by a health professional (MD of inhaler technique score -1.01%, 95% CI -15.75 to 13.72, three studies with 130 participants).Compliance with medications: There is moderate quality evidence that there was no difference between multimedia education and usual care or no education (RR of complying 1.02, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.08, two studies with 4552 participants).We could not determine the effect of multimedia education on other outcomes, including patient satisfaction, self-efficacy and health outcomes, due to an inadequate number of studies from which to draw conclusions.Authors' conclusions: This review provides evidence that multimedia education about medications is more effective than usual care (non-standardised education provided by health professionals as part of usual clinical care) or no education, in improving both knowledge and skill acquisition. It also suggests that multimedia education is at least equivalent to other forms of education, including written education and education provided by a health professional. However, this finding is based on often low quality evidence from a small number of trials. Multimedia education about medications could therefore be considered as an adjunct to usual care but there is inadequate evidence to recommend it as a replacement for written education or education by a health professional. Multimedia education may be considered as an alternative to education provided by a health professional, particularly in settings where provision of detailed education by a health professional is not feasible. More studies evaluating multimedia educational interventions are required in order to increase confidence in the estimate of effect of the intervention.Conclusions regarding the effect of multimedia education were limited by the lack of information provided by study authors about the educational interventions, and variability in their content and quality. Studies testing educational interventions should provide detailed information about the interventions and comparators. Research is required to establish a framework that is specific for the evaluation of the quality of multimedia educational programs. Conclusions were also limited by the heterogeneity in the outcomes reported and the instruments used to measure them. Research is required to identify a core set of outcomes which should be measured when evaluating patient educational interventions. Future research should use consistent, reliable and validated outcome measures so that comparisons can be made between studies.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD008416.pub2/abstract


Record #7 of 54
ID: MR000042
AU: Marcano Belisario José S
AU: Jamsek Jan
AU: Huckvale Kit
AU: O'Donoghue John
AU: Morrison Cecily P
AU: Car Josip
TI: Comparison of self-administered survey questionnaire responses collected using mobile apps versus other methods
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Cell Phones [statistics & numerical data];Data Accuracy;Minicomputers [statistics & numerical data];Mobile Applications [statistics & numerical data];Surveys and Questionnaires [standards];Text Messaging [statistics & numerical data];Time Factors;Humans[checkword]
CC: METHOD
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.MR000042.pub2
AB: Background: Self-administered survey questionnaires are an important data collection tool in clinical practice, public health research and epidemiology. They are ideal for achieving a wide geographic coverage of the target population, dealing with sensitive topics and are less resource-intensive than other data collection methods. These survey questionnaires can be delivered electronically, which can maximise the scalability and speed of data collection while reducing cost. In recent years, the use of apps running on consumer smart devices (i.e., smartphones and tablets) for this purpose has received considerable attention. However, variation in the mode of delivering a survey questionnaire could affect the quality of the responses collected.Objectives: To assess the impact that smartphone and tablet apps as a delivery mode have on the quality of survey questionnaire responses compared to any other alternative delivery mode: paper, laptop computer, tablet computer (manufactured before 2007), short message service (SMS) and plastic objects.Search methods: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, IEEEXplore, Web of Science, CABI: CAB Abstracts, Current Contents Connect, ACM Digital, ERIC, Sociological Abstracts, Health Management Information Consortium, the Campbell Library and CENTRAL. We also searched registers of current and ongoing clinical trials such as ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We also searched the grey literature in OpenGrey, Mobile Active and ProQuest Dissertation & Theses. Lastly, we searched Google Scholar and the reference lists of included studies and relevant systematic reviews. We performed all searches up to 12 and 13 April 2015.Selection criteria: We included parallel randomised controlled trials (RCTs), crossover trials and paired repeated measures studies that compared the electronic delivery of self-administered survey questionnaires via a smartphone or tablet app with any other delivery mode. We included data obtained from participants completing health-related self-administered survey questionnaire, both validated and non-validated. We also included data offered by both healthy volunteers and by those with any clinical diagnosis. We included studies that reported any of the following outcomes: data equivalence; data accuracy; data completeness; response rates; differences in the time taken to complete a survey questionnaire; differences in respondent's adherence to the original sampling protocol; and acceptability to respondents of the delivery mode. We included studies that were published in 2007 or after, as devices that became available during this time are compatible with the mobile operating system (OS) framework that focuses on apps.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently extracted data from the included studies using a standardised form created for this systematic review in REDCap. They then compared their forms to reach consensus. Through an initial systematic mapping on the included studies, we identified two settings in which survey completion took place: controlled and uncontrolled. These settings differed in terms of (i) the location where surveys were completed, (ii) the frequency and intensity of sampling protocols, and (iii) the level of control over potential confounders (e.g., type of technology, level of help offered to respondents). We conducted a narrative synthesis of the evidence because a meta-analysis was not appropriate due to high levels of clinical and methodological diversity. We reported our findings for each outcome according to the setting in which the studies were conducted.Main results: We included 14 studies (15 records) with a total of 2275 participants; although we included only 2272 participants in the final analyses as there were missing data for three participants from one included study.Regarding data equivalence, in both controlled and uncontrolled settings, the included studies found no significant differences in the mean overall scores between apps and other delivery modes, and that all correlation coefficients exceeded the recommended thresholds for data equivalence. Concerning the time taken to complete a survey questionnaire in a controlled setting, one study found that an app was faster than paper, whereas the other study did not find a significant difference between the two delivery modes. In an uncontrolled setting, one study found that an app was faster than SMS. Data completeness and adherence to sampling protocols were only reported in uncontrolled settings. Regarding the former, an app was found to result in more complete records than paper, and in significantly more data entries than an SMS-based survey questionnaire. Regarding adherence to the sampling protocol, apps may be better than paper but no different from SMS. We identified multiple definitions of acceptability to respondents, with inconclusive results: preference; ease of use; willingness to use a delivery mode; satisfaction; effectiveness of the system informativeness; perceived time taken to complete the survey questionnaire; perceived benefit of a delivery mode; perceived usefulness of a delivery mode; perceived ability to complete a survey questionnaire; maximum length of time that participants would be willing to use a delivery mode; and reactivity to the delivery mode and its successful integration into respondents' daily routine. Finally, regardless of the study setting, none of the included studies reported data accuracy or response rates.Authors' conclusions: Our results, based on a narrative synthesis of the evidence, suggest that apps might not affect data equivalence as long as the intended clinical application of the survey questionnaire, its intended frequency of administration and the setting in which it was validated remain unchanged. There were no data on data accuracy or response rates, and findings on the time taken to complete a self-administered survey questionnaire were contradictory. Furthermore, although apps might improve data completeness, there is not enough evidence to assess their impact on adherence to sampling protocols. None of the included studies assessed how elements of user interaction design, survey questionnaire design and intervention design might influence mode effects. Those conducting research in public health and epidemiology should not assume that mode effects relevant to other delivery modes apply to apps running on consumer smart devices. Those conducting methodological research might wish to explore the issues highlighted by this systematic review.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.MR000042.pub2/abstract


Record #8 of 54
ID: CD011399
AU: Buitrago Diana
AU: Jimenez Adriana
AU: Conterno Lucieni O
AU: Martí-Carvajal Arturo J
TI: Antibiotic therapy for adults with neurosyphilis
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 11
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
CC: STI
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011399
AB: This is the protocol for a review and there is no abstract. The objectives are as follows:To assess the effectiveness and safety of antibiotics for the management of neurosyphilis in adults.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD011399/abstract


Record #9 of 54
ID: CD001256
AU: Yeung Simon S
AU: Yeung Ella W
AU: Gillespie Lesley D
TI: Interventions for preventing lower limb soft-tissue running injuries
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2011
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Cumulative Trauma Disorders [prevention & control];Leg Injuries [prevention & control];Military Personnel;Orthotic Devices;Prisoners;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Running [injuries];Soccer [injuries];Soft Tissue Injuries [prevention & control];Humans[checkword]
CC: MUSKINJ
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001256.pub2
AB: Background: Overuse soft-tissue injuries occur frequently in runners. Stretching exercises, modification of training schedules, and the use of protective devices such as braces and insoles are often advocated for prevention. This is an update of a review first published in 2001.Objectives: To assess the effects of interventions for preventing lower limb soft-tissue running injuries.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register (March 2011); The Cochrane Library 2010, Issue 4; MEDLINE (1966 to January 2011); EMBASE (1980 to January 2011); and international trial registries (17 January 2011).Selection criteria: Randomised or quasi-randomised trials evaluating interventions to prevent lower limb soft-tissue running injuries.Data collection and analysis: Two authors independently assessed risk of bias (relating to sequence generation, allocation concealment, blinding, incomplete outcome data) and extracted data. Data were adjusted for clustering if necessary and pooled using the fixed-effect model when appropriate.Main results: We included 25 trials (30,252 participants). Participants were military recruits (19 trials), runners from the general population (three trials), soccer referees (one trial), and prisoners (two trials). The interventions tested in the included trials fell into four main preventive strategies: exercises, modification of training schedules, use of orthoses, and footwear and socks. All 25 included trials were judged as 'unclear' or 'high' risk of bias for at least one of the four domains listed above.We found no evidence that stretching reduces lower limb soft-tissue injuries (6 trials; 5130 participants; risk ratio [RR] 0.85, 95% confidence interval [95% CI] 0.65 to 1.12). As with all non-significant results, this is compatible with either a reduction or an increase in soft-tissue injuries. We found no evidence to support a training regimen of conditioning exercises to improve strength, flexibility and coordination (one trial; 1020 participants; RR 1.20, 95% CI 0.77 to 1.87).We found no evidence that a longer, more gradual increase in training reduces injuries in novice runners (one trial; 486 participants; RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.72 to 1.45). There was some evidence from a poor quality trial that additional training resulted in a significant increase in the number of naval recruits with shin splints (one trial; 1670 participants; RR 2.02, 95% CI 1.11 to 3.70). There was limited evidence that injuries were less frequent in prisoners when running duration (one trial; 69 participants; RR 0.41, 95% CI 0.21 to 0.79) or frequency (one trial; 58 participants; RR 0.19, 95% CI 0.06 to 0.66) were reduced.Patellofemoral braces appear to be effective for preventing anterior knee pain (two trials; 227 participants; RR 0.41, 95% CI 0.24 to 0.67).Custom-made biomechanical insoles may be more effective than no insoles for reducing shin splints (medial tibial stress syndrome) in military recruits (one trial; 146 participants; RR 0.24, 95% CI 0.08 to 0.69).We found no evidence in military recruits that wearing running shoes based on foot shape, rather than standard running shoes, significantly reduced rate of running injuries (2 trials; 5795 participants; Rate Ratio 1.03, 95% CI 0.93 to 1.14).Authors' conclusions: Overall, the evidence base for the effectiveness of interventions to reduce soft-tissue injury after intensive running is very weak, with few trials at low risk of bias. More well-designed and reported RCTs are needed that test interventions in recreational and competitive runners.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD001256.pub2/abstract


Record #10 of 54
ID: CD010684
AU: Heslop Rachel
AU: Roberts Helen
AU: Flower Deralie
AU: Jordan Vanessa
TI: Interventions for men and women with their first episode of genital herpes
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2016
NO: 8
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
CC: STI
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010684.pub2
AB: Background: Genital herpes is incurable, and is caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV). First-episode genital herpes is the first clinical presentation of herpes that a person experiences. Current treatment is based around viral suppression in order to decrease the length and severity of the episode.Objectives: To determine the effectiveness and safety of the different existing treatments for first-episode genital herpes on the duration of symptoms and time to recurrence.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (from inception to April 2016), MEDLINE (from inception to April 2016), the Specialised Register of the Cochrane Sexually Transmitted Infections Review Group (from inception to April 2016), EMBASE (from inception to April 2016), PsycINFO (from inception to April 2016), CINAHL (from inception to April 2016), LILACS (from inception to April 2016), AMED (from inception to April 2016), and the Alternative Medicines Specialised Register (from inception to April 2016). We handsearched a number of relevant journals, searched reference lists of all included studies, databases of ongoing trials, and other Internet databases.Selection criteria: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) on participants with first-episode genital herpes. We excluded vaccination trials, and trials in which the primary objective assessed a complication of HSV infection.Data collection and analysis: All studies written in English were independently assessed by at least two review authors for inclusion, risk of bias for each trial, and to extract data. Studies requiring translation were assessed for inclusion, trial quality, and data extraction by external translators.Main results: We included 26 trials with 2084 participants analysed. Most of the studies were conducted in the United Kingdom (UK) and United States (US), and involved men and women experiencing their first episode of genital herpes, with the exception of three studies which included only women. We rated the majority of these studies as having an unclear risk of bias; largely due to lack of information supplied in the publications, and due to the age of the trials. This review found low quality evidence from two studies of oral acyclovir, when compared to placebo, reduced the duration of symptoms in individuals undergoing their first episode of genital herpes (mean difference (MD) -3.22, 95% confidence interval (CI) -5.91 to -0.54; I2 = 52%). In two studies (112 participants), intravenous acyclovir decreased the median number of days that patients with first-episode herpes suffered symptoms. Oral valaciclovir (converted to acyclovir) also showed a similar length of symptom duration when compared to acyclovir in two studies.  There is currently no evidence that topical acyclovir reduces symptoms (MD -0.61 days, 95% CI -2.16 to 0.95; 3 RCTs, 195 participants, I2 statistic = 56%). There is also no current evidence that the topical treatments of cicloxolone cream, carbenoxolone sodium cream, adenosine arabinoside, idoxuridine in dimethyl sulfoxide, when compared to placebo reduced the duration of symptoms in people undergoing their first episode of herpes.Two studies reported no evidence of a reduction in the number of median days to recurrence following treatment with oral acyclovir versus placebo. Adverse events were generally poorly reported by all of the included studies and we were unable to quantitatively analyse this outcome. For those taking acyclovir, there were no serious adverse events; the most common adverse events reported for oral acyclovir were coryza, dizziness, tiredness, diarrhoea and renal colic. For intravenous acyclovir these were phlebitis, nausea and abnormal liver function tests and for topical acyclovir there was pain with the topical application.Those undergoing interferon treatment had significantly more adverse events compared to those taking placebo.Authors' conclusions: There is low quality evidence from this review that oral acyclovir reduced the duration of symptoms for genital herpes. However, there is low quality evidence which did not show that topical antivirals reduced symptom duration for patients undergoing their first episode of genital herpes. This review was limited by the inclusion of skewed data, resulting in few trials that we were able to meta-analyse.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD010684.pub2/abstract


Record #11 of 54
ID: CD003303
AU: Virgili Gianni
AU: Acosta Ruthy
AU: Grover Lori L
AU: Bentley Sharon A
AU: Giacomelli Giovanni
TI: Reading aids for adults with low vision
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2013
NO: 10
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Reading;Sensory Aids;Eyeglasses;Lenses;Macular Degeneration [complications];Optical Devices [standards];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Vision, Low [rehabilitation];Visual Acuity;Visually Impaired Persons [rehabilitation];Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: EYES
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003303.pub3
AB: Background: The purpose of low-vision rehabilitation is to allow people to resume or to continue to perform daily living tasks, with reading being one of the most important. This is achieved by providing appropriate optical devices and special training in the use of residual-vision and low-vision aids, which range from simple optical magnifiers to high-magnification video magnifiers.Objectives: To assess the effects of reading aids for adults with low vision.Search methods: We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group Trials Register) (The Cochrane Library 2013, Issue 1), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid OLDMEDLINE, (January 1950 to January 2013), EMBASE (January 1980 to January 2013), Latin American and Caribbean Literature on Health Sciences (LILACS) (January 1982 to January 2013), OpenGrey (System for Information on Grey Literature in Europe) (www.opengrey.eu/), the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) (www.controlled-trials.com), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov/) and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the electronic databases on 31 January 2013. We searched the reference lists of relevant articles and used the Science Citation Index to find articles that cited the included studies and contacted investigators and manufacturers of low-vision aids. We handsearched the British Journal of Visual Impairment from 1983 to 1999 and the Journal of Visual Impairment and Blindness from 1976 to 1991.Selection criteria: This review includes randomised and quasi-randomised trials in which any device or aid used for reading had been compared to another device or aid in people aged 16 or over with low vision as defined by the study investigators.Data collection and analysis: At least two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data.Main results: We included nine small studies with a cross-over-like design (181 people overall) and one study with three parallel arms (243 participants) in the review. All studies reported the primary outcome, results for reading speed.Two studies including 92 participants found moderate- or low-quality evidence suggesting that reading speed is higher with stand-mounted electronic devices or electronic devices with the camera mounted in a ?mouse? than with optical magnifiers, which in these trials were generally stand-mounted or, less frequently, hand-held magnifiers or microscopic lenses. In another study of 20 participants there was moderate-quality evidence that optical devices are better than head-mounted electronic devices (four types).There was low-quality evidence from three studies (93 participants) that reading using head-mounted electronic devices is slower than with stand-based electronic devices. The technology of electronic devices may have changed and improved since these studies were conducted.One study suggested no difference between a diffractive spectacle-mounted magnifier and either refractive (15 participants) or aplanatic (15 participants) magnifiers.One study of 10 people suggested that several overlay coloured filters were no better and possibly worse than a clear filter.A parallel-arm study including 243 participants with age-related macular degeneration found that custom or standard prism spectacles were no different from conventional reading spectacles, although the data did not allow precise estimates of performance to be made.Authors' conclusions: There is insufficient evidence on the effect of different types of low-vision aids on reading performance. It would be necessary to investigate which patient characteristics predict performance with different devices, including costly electronic devices. Better-quality research should also focus on assessing sustained long-term use of each device. Authors of studies testing several devices on the same person should consider design and reporting issues related to their sequential presentation and to the cross-over-like study design.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD003303.pub3/abstract


Record #12 of 54
ID: CD003717
AU: Synnot Anneliese
AU: Ryan Rebecca
AU: Prictor Megan
AU: Fetherstonhaugh Deirdre
AU: Parker Barbara
TI: Audio-visual presentation of information for informed consent for participation in clinical trials
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 5
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Audiovisual Aids;Clinical Trials as Topic;Informed Consent;Patient Selection;Patient Education as Topic [methods];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Humans[checkword]
CC: COMMUN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003717.pub3
AB: Background: Informed consent is a critical component of clinical research. Different methods of presenting information to potential participants of clinical trials may improve the informed consent process. Audio-visual interventions (presented, for example, on the Internet or on DVD) are one such method. We updated a 2008 review of the effects of these interventions for informed consent for trial participation.Objectives: To assess the effects of audio-visual information interventions regarding informed consent compared with standard information or placebo audio-visual interventions regarding informed consent for potential clinical trial participants, in terms of their understanding, satisfaction, willingness to participate, and anxiety or other psychological distress.Search methods: We searched: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), The Cochrane Library, issue 6, 2012; MEDLINE (OvidSP) (1946 to 13 June 2012); EMBASE (OvidSP) (1947 to 12 June 2012); PsycINFO (OvidSP) (1806 to June week 1 2012); CINAHL (EbscoHOST) (1981 to 27 June 2012); Current Contents (OvidSP) (1993 Week 27 to 2012 Week 26); and ERIC (Proquest) (searched 27 June 2012). We also searched reference lists of included studies and relevant review articles, and contacted study authors and experts. There were no language restrictions.Selection criteria: We included randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials comparing audio-visual information alone, or in conjunction with standard forms of information provision (such as written or verbal information), with standard forms of information provision or placebo audio-visual information, in the informed consent process for clinical trials. Trials involved individuals or their guardians asked to consider participating in a real or hypothetical clinical study. (In the earlier version of this review we only included studies evaluating informed consent interventions for real studies).Data collection and analysis: Two authors independently assessed studies for inclusion and extracted data. We synthesised the findings using meta-analysis, where possible, and narrative synthesis of results. We assessed the risk of bias of individual studies and considered the impact of the quality of the overall evidence on the strength of the results.Main results: We included 16 studies involving data from 1884 participants. Nine studies included participants considering real clinical trials, and eight included participants considering hypothetical clinical trials, with one including both. All studies were conducted in high-income countries.There is still much uncertainty about the effect of audio-visual informed consent interventions on a range of patient outcomes. However, when considered across comparisons, we found low to very low quality evidence that such interventions may slightly improve knowledge or understanding of the parent trial, but may make little or no difference to rate of participation or willingness to participate. Audio-visual presentation of informed consent may improve participant satisfaction with the consent information provided. However its effect on satisfaction with other aspects of the process is not clear. There is insufficient evidence to draw conclusions about anxiety arising from audio-visual informed consent. We found conflicting, very low quality evidence about whether audio-visual interventions took more or less time to administer. No study measured researcher satisfaction with the informed consent process, nor ease of use.The evidence from real clinical trials was rated as low quality for most outcomes, and for hypothetical studies, very low. We note, however, that this was in large part due to poor study reporting, the hypothetical nature of some studies and low participant numbers, rather than inconsistent results between studies or confirmed poor trial quality. We do not believe that any studies were funded by organisations with a vested interest in the results.Authors' conclusions: The value of audio-visual interventions as a tool for helping to enhance the informed consent process for people considering participating in clinical trials remains largely unclear, although trends are emerging with regard to improvements in knowledge and satisfaction. Many relevant outcomes have not been evaluated in randomised trials. Triallists should continue to explore innovative methods of providing information to potential trial participants during the informed consent process, mindful of the range of outcomes that the intervention should be designed to achieve, and balancing the resource implications of intervention development and delivery against the purported benefits of any intervention.More trials, adhering to CONSORT standards, and conducted in settings and populations underserved in this review, i.e. low- and middle-income countries and people with low literacy, would strengthen the results of this review and broaden its applicability. Assessing process measures, such as time taken to administer the intervention and researcher satisfaction, would inform the implementation of audio-visual consent materials.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD003717.pub3/abstract


Record #13 of 54
ID: CD008776
AU: Pal Kingshuk
AU: Eastwood Sophie V
AU: Michie Susan
AU: Farmer Andrew J
AU: Barnard Maria L
AU: Peacock Richard
AU: Wood Bindie
AU: Inniss Joni D
AU: Murray Elizabeth
TI: Computer-based diabetes self-management interventions for adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2013
NO: 3
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Internet;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2 [blood] [therapy];Health Status;Hemoglobin A, Glycosylated [metabolism];Quality of Life;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Self Care [methods];Therapy, Computer-Assisted [methods];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
CC: ENDOC
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008776.pub2
AB: Background: Diabetes is one of the commonest chronic medical conditions, affecting around 347 million adults worldwide. Structured patient education programmes reduce the risk of diabetes-related complications four-fold. Internet-based self-management programmes have been shown to be effective for a number of long-term conditions, but it is unclear what  are the essential or effective components of such programmes. If computer-based self-management interventions improve outcomes in type 2 diabetes, they could potentially provide a cost-effective option for reducing the burdens placed on patients and healthcare systems by this long-term condition.Objectives: To assess the effects on health status and health-related quality of life of computer-based diabetes self-management interventions for adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.Search methods: We searched six electronic bibliographic databases for published articles and conference proceedings and three online databases for theses (all up to November 2011). Reference lists of relevant reports and reviews were also screened.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials of computer-based self-management interventions for adults with type 2 diabetes, i.e. computer-based software applications that respond to user input and aim to generate tailored content to improve one or more self-management domains through feedback, tailored advice, reinforcement and rewards, patient decision support, goal setting or reminders.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently screened the abstracts and extracted data. A taxonomy for behaviour change techniques was used to describe the active ingredients of the intervention.Main results: We identified 16 randomised controlled trials with 3578 participants that fitted our inclusion criteria. These studies included a wide spectrum of interventions covering clinic-based brief interventions, Internet-based interventions that could be used from home and mobile phone-based interventions. The mean age of participants was between 46 to 67 years old and mean time since diagnosis was 6 to 13 years. The duration of the interventions varied between 1 to 12 months. There were three reported deaths out of 3578 participants.Computer-based diabetes self-management interventions currently have limited effectiveness. They appear to have small benefits on glycaemic control (pooled effect on glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c): -2.3 mmol/mol or -0.2% (95% confidence interval (CI) -0.4 to -0.1; P = 0.009; 2637 participants; 11 trials). The effect size on HbA1c was larger in the mobile phone subgroup (subgroup analysis: mean difference in HbA1c -5.5 mmol/mol or -0.5% (95% CI -0.7 to -0.3); P < 0.00001; 280 participants; three trials). Current interventions do not show adequate evidence for improving depression, health-related quality of life or weight. Four (out of 10) interventions showed beneficial effects on lipid profile.One participant withdrew because of anxiety but there were no other documented adverse effects. Two studies provided limited cost-effectiveness data - with one study suggesting costs per patient of less than $140 (in 1997) or 105 EURO and another study showed no change in health behaviour and resource utilisation.Authors' conclusions: Computer-based diabetes self-management interventions to manage type 2 diabetes appear to have a small beneficial effect on blood glucose control and the effect was larger in the mobile phone subgroup. There is no evidence to show benefits in other biological outcomes or any cognitive, behavioural or emotional outcomes.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD008776.pub2/abstract


Record #14 of 54
ID: CD012292
AU: von Philipsborn Peter
AU: Stratil Jan M
AU: Burns Jacob
AU: Busert Laura K
AU: Pfadenhauer Lisa M
AU: Polus Stephanie
AU: Holzapfel Christina
AU: Hauner Hans
AU: Rehfuess Eva
TI: Environmental interventions to reduce the consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and their effects on health
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2016
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
CC: PUBHLTH
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD012292
AB: This is the protocol for a review and there is no abstract. The objectives are as follows:To assess the effects of environmental interventions (excluding taxation) targeted at sugar-sweetened beverages or low-calorie alternatives to sugar-sweetened beverages on consumption levels, diet-related anthropometric measures and health outcomes, and on any reported unintended consequences or adverse outcomes.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD012292/abstract


Record #15 of 54
ID: CD009645
AU: Elsner Bernhard
AU: Kugler Joachim
AU: Pohl Marcus
AU: Mehrholz Jan
TI: Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) for improving activities of daily living, and physical and cognitive functioning, in people after stroke
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2016
NO: 3
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Activities of Daily Living;Electric Stimulation Therapy [methods];Motor Activity [physiology];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Recovery of Function;Stroke [rehabilitation];Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: STROKE
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009645.pub3
AB: Background: Stroke is one of the leading causes of disability worldwide. Functional impairment, resulting in poor performance in activities of daily living (ADLs) among stroke survivors is common. Current rehabilitation approaches have limited effectiveness in improving ADL performance, function, muscle strength and cognitive abilities (including spatial neglect) after stroke, but a possible adjunct to stroke rehabilitation might be non-invasive brain stimulation by transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to modulate cortical excitability, and hence to improve ADL performance, arm and leg function, muscle strength and cognitive abilities (including spatial neglect), dropouts and adverse events in people after stroke.Objectives: To assess the effects of tDCS on ADLs, arm and leg function, muscle strength and cognitive abilities (including spatial neglect), dropouts and adverse events in people after stroke.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (February 2015), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; the Cochrane Library; 2015, Issue 2), MEDLINE (1948 to February 2015), EMBASE (1980 to February 2015), CINAHL (1982 to February 2015), AMED (1985 to February 2015), Science Citation Index (1899 to February 2015) and four additional databases. In an effort to identify further published, unpublished and ongoing trials, we searched trials registers and reference lists, handsearched conference proceedings and contacted authors and equipment manufacturers.Selection criteria: This is the update of an existing review. In the previous version of this review we focused on the effects of tDCS on ADLs and function. In this update, we broadened our inclusion criteria to compare any kind of active tDCS for improving ADLs, function, muscle strength and cognitive abilities (including spatial neglect) versus any kind of placebo or control intervention.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and risk of bias (JM and MP) and extracted data (BE and JM). If necessary, we contacted study authors to ask for additional information. We collected information on dropouts and adverse events from the trial reports.Main results: We included 32 studies involving a total of 748 participants aged above 18 with acute, postacute or chronic ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke. We also identified 55 ongoing studies. The risk of bias did not differ substantially for different comparisons and outcomes.We found nine studies with 396 participants examining the effects of tDCS versus sham tDCS (or any other passive intervention) on our primary outcome measure, ADLs after stroke. We found evidence of effect regarding ADL performance at the end of the intervention period (standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.24, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.03 to 0.44; inverse variance method with random-effects model; moderate quality evidence). Six studies with 269 participants assessed the effects of tDCS on ADLs at the end of follow-up, and found improved ADL performance (SMD 0.31, 95% CI 0.01 to 0.62; inverse variance method with random-effects model; moderate quality evidence). However, the results did not persist in a sensitivity analysis including only trials of good methodological quality.One of our secondary outcome measures was upper extremity function: 12 trials with a total of 431 participants measured upper extremity function at the end of the intervention period, revealing no evidence of an effect in favour of tDCS (SMD 0.01, 95% CI -0.48 to 0.50 for studies presenting absolute values (low quality evidence) and SMD 0.32, 95% CI -0.51 to 1.15 (low quality evidence) for studies presenting change values; inverse variance method with random-effects model). Regarding the effects of tDCS on upper extremity function at the end of follow-up, we identified four studies with a total of 187 participants (absolute values) that showed no evidence of an effect (SMD 0.01, 95% CI -0.48 to 0.50; inverse variance method with random-effects model; low quality evidence). Ten studies with 313 participants reported outcome data for muscle strength at the end of the intervention period, but in the corresponding meta-analysis there was no evidence of an effect. Three studies with 156 participants reported outcome data on muscle strength at follow-up, but there was no evidence of an effect.In six of 23 studies (26%), dropouts, adverse events or deaths that occurred during the intervention period were reported, and the proportions of dropouts and adverse events were comparable between groups (risk difference (RD) 0.01, 95% CI -0.02 to 0.03; Mantel-Haenszel method with random-effects model; low quality evidence; analysis based only on studies that reported either on dropouts, or on adverse events, or on both). However, this effect may be underestimated due to reporting bias.Authors' conclusions: At the moment, evidence of very low to moderate quality is available on the effectiveness of tDCS (anodal/cathodal/dual) versus control (sham/any other intervention) for improving ADL performance after stroke. However, there are many ongoing randomised trials that could change the quality of evidence in the future. Future studies should particularly engage those who may benefit most from tDCS after stroke and in the effects of tDCS on upper and lower limb function, muscle strength and cognitive abilities (including spatial neglect). Dropouts and adverse events should be routinely monitored and presented as secondary outcomes. They should also address methodological issues by adhering to the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statement.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD009645.pub3/abstract


Record #16 of 54
ID: CD008106
AU: Smith Toby O
AU: Donell Simon
AU: Song Fujian
AU: Hing Caroline B
TI: Surgical versus non-surgical interventions for treating patellar dislocation
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 2
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Patellar Dislocation [surgery] [therapy];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Child[checkword];Humans[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
CC: MUSKINJ
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008106.pub3
AB: Background: Patellar dislocation occurs when the patella disengages completely from the trochlear (femoral) groove. Following reduction of the dislocation, conservative (non-surgical) rehabilitation with physiotherapy may be used. Since recurrence of dislocation is common, some surgeons have advocated surgical intervention rather than non-surgical interventions. This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2011.Objectives: To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of surgical versus non-surgical interventions for treating people with primary or recurrent patellar dislocation.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group's Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, EMBASE, AMED, CINAHL, ZETOC, Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro) and a variety of other literature databases and trial registries. Corresponding authors were contacted to identify additional studies. The last search was carried out in October 2014.Selection criteria: We included randomised and quasi-randomised controlled clinical trials evaluating surgical versus non-surgical interventions for treating lateral patellar dislocation.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently examined titles and abstracts of each identified study to assess study eligibility, extract data and assess risk of bias. The primary outcomes we assessed were the frequency of recurrent dislocation, and validated patient-rated knee or physical function scores. We calculated risk ratios (RR) for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences MD) for continuous outcomes. When appropriate, we pooled data.Main results: We included five randomised studies and one quasi-randomised study. These recruited a total of 344 people with primary (first-time) patellar dislocation. The mean ages in the individual studies ranged from 19.3 to 25.7 years, with four studies including children, mainly adolescents, as well as adults. Follow-up for the full study populations ranged from two to nine years across the six studies. The quality of the evidence is very low as assessed by GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation Working Group) criteria, with all studies being at high risk of performance and detection biases, relating to the lack of blinding.There was very low quality but consistent evidence that participants managed surgically had a significantly lower risk of recurrent dislocation following primary patellar dislocation at two to five years follow-up (21/162 versus 32/136; RR 0.53 favouring surgery, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.33 to 0.87; five studies, 294 participants). Based on an illustrative risk of recurrent dislocation in 222 people per 1000 in the non-surgical group, these data equate to 104 fewer (95% CI 149 fewer to 28 fewer) people per 1000 having recurrent dislocation after surgery. Similarly, there is evidence of a lower risk of recurrent dislocation after surgery at six to nine years (RR 0.67 favouring surgery, 95% CI 0.42 to 1.08; two studies, 165 participants), but a small increase cannot be ruled out. Based on an illustrative risk of recurrent dislocation in 336 people per 1000 in the non-surgical group, these data equate to 110 fewer (95% CI 195 fewer to 27 more) people per 1000 having recurrent dislocation after surgery.The very low quality evidence available from single trials only for four validated patient-rated knee and physical function scores (the Tegner activity scale, KOOS, Lysholm and Hughston VAS (visual analogue scale) score) did not show significant differences between the two treatment groups.The results for the Kujala patellofemoral disorders score (0 to 100: best outcome) differed in direction of effect at two to five years follow-up, which favoured the surgery group (MD 13.93 points higher, 95% CI 5.33 points higher to 22.53 points higher; four studies, 171 participants) and the six to nine years follow-up, which favoured the non-surgical treatment group (MD 3.25 points lower, 95% CI 10.61 points lower to 4.11 points higher; two studies, 167 participants). However, only the two to five years follow-up included the clear possibility of a clinically important effect (putative minimal clinically important difference for this outcome is 10 points).Adverse effects of treatment were reported in one trial only; all four major complications were attributed to the surgical treatment group. Slightly more people in the surgery group had subsequent surgery six to nine years after their primary dislocation (20/87 versus 16/78; RR 1.06, 95% CI 0.59 to 1.89, two studies, 165 participants). Based on an illustrative risk of subsequent surgery in 186 people per 1000 in the non-surgical group, these data equate to 11 more (95% CI 76 fewer to 171 more) people per 1000 having subsequent surgery after primary surgery.Authors' conclusions: Although there is some evidence to support surgical over non-surgical management of primary patellar dislocation in the short term, the quality of this evidence is very low because of the high risk of bias and the imprecision in the effect estimates. We are therefore very uncertain about the estimate of effect. No trials examined people with recurrent patellar dislocation. Adequately powered, multi-centre, randomised controlled trials, conducted and reported to contemporary standards, are needed. To inform the design and conduct of these trials, expert consensus should be achieved on the minimal description of both surgical and non-surgical interventions, and the anatomical or pathological variations that may be relevant to both choice of these interventions and the natural history of patellar instability. Furthermore, well-designed studies recording adverse events and long-term outcomes are needed.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD008106.pub3/abstract


Record #17 of 54
ID: CD007495
AU: Tzortziou Brown Victoria
AU: Underwood Martin
AU: Mohamed Noman
AU: Westwood Olwyn
AU: Morrissey Dylan
TI: Professional interventions for general practitioners on the management of musculoskeletal conditions
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2016
NO: 5
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Bone Density;Back Pain [diagnosis] [therapy];Bone Density Conservation Agents [therapeutic use];Controlled Before-After Studies;General Practitioners [education];Guideline Adherence;Interrupted Time Series Analysis;Musculoskeletal Diseases [diagnosis] [therapy];Osteoarthritis [diagnosis] [therapy];Osteoporosis [diagnosis] [therapy];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Reminder Systems;Shoulder Pain [diagnosis] [therapy];Humans[checkword]
CC: EPOC
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007495.pub2
AB: Background: Musculoskeletal conditions require particular management skills. Identification of interventions which are effective in equipping general practitioners (GPs) with such necessary skills could translate to improved health outcomes for patients and reduced healthcare and societal costs.Objectives: To determine the effectiveness of professional interventions for GPs that aim to improve the management of musculoskeletal conditions in primary care. Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), 2010, Issue 2; MEDLINE, Ovid (1950 - October 2013); EMBASE, Ovid (1980 - Ocotber 2013); CINAHL, EbscoHost (1980 - November 2013), and the EPOC Specialised Register. We conducted cited reference searches using ISI Web of Knowledge and Google Scholar; and handsearched selected issues of Arthritis and Rheumatism and Primary Care-Clinics in Office Practice. The latest search was conducted in November 2013.Selection criteria: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), non-randomised controlled trials (NRCTs), controlled before-and-after studies (CBAs) and interrupted time series (ITS) studies of professional interventions for GPs, taking place in a community setting, aiming to improve the management (including diagnosis and treatment) of musculoskeletal conditions and reporting any objective measure of GP behaviour, patient or economic outcomes. We considered professional interventions of any length, duration, intensity and complexity compared with active or inactive controls.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently abstracted all data. We calculated the risk difference (RD) and risk ratio (RR) of compliance with desired practice for dichotomous outcomes, and the mean difference (MD) and standardised mean difference (SMD) for continuous outcomes. We investigated whether the direction of the targeted behavioural change affects the effectiveness of interventions.Main results: Thirty studies met our inclusion criteria.From 11 studies on osteoporosis, meta-analysis of five studies (high-certainty evidence) showed that a combination of a GP alerting system on a patient's increased risk of osteoporosis and a patient-directed intervention (including patient education and a reminder to see their GP) improves GP behaviour with regard to diagnostic bone mineral density (BMD) testing and osteoporosis medication prescribing (RR 4.44; (95% confidence interval (CI) 3.54 to 5.55; 3 studies; 3,386 participants)) for BMD and RR 1.71 (95% CI 1.50 to 1.94; 5 studies; 4,223 participants) for osteoporosis medication. Meta-analysis of two studies showed that GP alerting on its own also probably improves osteoporosis guideline-consistent GP behaviour (RR 4.75 (95% CI 3.62 to 6.24; 3,047 participants)) for BMD and RR 1.52 (95% CI 1.26 to 1.84; 3.047 participants) for osteoporosis medication) and that adding the patient-directed component probably does not lead to a greater effect (RR 0.94 (95% CI 0.81 to 1.09; 2,995 participants)) for BMD and RR 0.93 (95% CI 0.79 to 1.10; 2,995 participants) for osteoporosis medication.Of the 10 studies on low back pain, seven showed that guideline dissemination and educational opportunities for GPs may lead to little or no improvement with regard to guideline-consistent GP behaviour. Two studies showed that the combination of guidelines and GP feedback on the total number of investigations requested may have an effect on GP behaviour and result in a slight reduction in the number of tests, while one of these studies showed that the combination of guidelines and GP reminders attached to radiology reports may result in a small but sustained reduction in the number of investigation requests.Of the four studies on osteoarthritis, one study showed that using educationally influential physicians may result in improvement in guideline-consistent GP behaviour. Another study showed slight improvements in patient outcomes (pain control) after training GPs on pain management.Of three studies on shoulder pain, one study reported that there may be little or no improvement in patient outcomes (functional capacity) after GP education on shoulder pain and injection training.Of two studies on other musculoskeletal conditions, one study on pain management showed that there may be worse patient outcomes (pain control) after GP training on the use of validated assessment scales.The 12 remaining studies across all musculoskeletal conditions showed little or no improvement in GP behaviour and patient outcomes.The direction of the targeted behaviour (i.e. increasing or decreasing a behaviour) does not seem to affect the effectiveness of an intervention. The majority of the studies did not investigate the potential adverse effects of the interventions and only three studies included a cost-effectiveness analysis.Overall, there were important methodological limitations in the body of evidence, with just a third of the studies reporting adequate allocation concealment and blinded outcome assessments. While our confidence in the pooled effect estimate of interventions for improving diagnostic testing and medication prescribing in osteoporosis is high, our confidence in the reported effect estimates in the remaining studies is low.Authors' conclusions: There is good-quality evidence that a GP alerting system with or without patient-directed education on osteoporosis improves guideline-consistent GP behaviour, resulting in better diagnosis and treatment rates.Interventions such as GP reminder messages and GP feedback on performance combined with guideline dissemination may lead to small improvements in guideline-consistent GP behaviour with regard to low back pain, while GP education on osteoarthritis pain and the use of educationally influential physicians may lead to slight improvement in patient outcomes and guideline-consistent behaviour respectively. However, further studies are needed to ascertain the effectiveness of such interventions in improving GP behaviour and patient outcomes.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD007495.pub2/abstract


Record #18 of 54
ID: CD009098
AU: Santa Cruz Roberto
AU: Rojas Juan Ignacio
AU: Nervi Rolando
AU: Heredia Roberto
AU: Ciapponi Agustín
TI: High versus low positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) levels for mechanically ventilated adult patients with acute lung injury and acute respiratory distress syndrome
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2013
NO: 6
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Acute Disease;Intensive Care Units;Length of Stay;Oxygen Consumption;Positive-Pressure Respiration [methods] [mortality];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Adult [mortality] [therapy];Ventilator-Induced Lung Injury [mortality] [therapy];Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: ANAESTH
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009098.pub2
AB: Background: Mortality in patients with acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) remains high. These patients require mechanical ventilation, but this modality has been associated with ventilator-induced lung injury. High levels of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) could reduce this condition and improve patient survival.Objectives: To assess the benefits and harms of high versus low levels of PEEP in patients with ALI and ARDS.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library, 2013, Issue 4), MEDLINE (1950 to May 2013), EMBASE (1982 to May 2013), LILACS (1982 to May 2013) and SCI (Science Citation Index). We used the Science Citation Index to find references that have cited the identified trials. We did not specifically conduct manual searches of abstracts of conference proceedings for this review. We also searched for ongoing trials (www.trialscentral.org; www.clinicaltrial.gov and www.controlled-trials.com).    Selection criteria: We included randomized controlled trials that compared the effects of two levels of PEEP in ALI and ARDS participants who were intubated and mechanically ventilated in intensive care for at least 24 hours.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors assessed the trial quality and extracted data independently. We contacted investigators to identify additional published and unpublished studies. Main results: We included seven studies that compared high versus low levels of PEEP (2565 participants). In five of the studies (2417 participants), a comparison was made between high and low levels of PEEP with the same tidal volume in both groups, but in the remaining two studies (148 participants), the tidal volume was different between high- and low-level groups. We saw evidence of risk of bias in three studies, and the remaining studies fulfilled all criteria for adequate trial quality.In the main analysis, we assessed mortality occurring before hospital discharge only in those studies that compared high versus low PEEP with the same tidal volume in both groups. With the three studies that were included, the meta-analysis revealed no statistically significant differences between the two groups (relative risk (RR) 0.90, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.81 to 1.01), nor was any statistically significant difference seen in the risk of barotrauma (RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.66 to 1.42). Oxygenation was improved in the high-PEEP group, although data derived from the studies showed a considerable degree of statistical heterogeneity. The number of ventilator-free days showed no significant difference between the two groups. Available data were insufficient to allow pooling of length of stay in the intensive care unit (ICU). The subgroup of participants with ARDS showed decreased mortality in the ICU, although it must be noted that in two of the three included studies, the authors used a protective ventilatory strategy involving a low tidal volume and high levels of PEEP.Authors' conclusions: Available evidence indicates that high levels of PEEP, as compared with low levels, did not reduce mortality before hospital discharge. The data also show that high levels of PEEP produced no significant difference in the risk of barotrauma, but rather improved participants' oxygenation to the first, third, and seventh days. This review indicates that the included studies were characterized by clinical heterogeneity.  
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD009098.pub2/abstract


Record #19 of 54
ID: CD007921
AU: Khalil Ahmed AM
AU: Boyd Alan
AU: Griffiths Gareth
TI: Interposition vein cuff for infragenicular prosthetic bypass graft
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2012
NO: 9
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Blood Vessel Prosthesis;Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation [methods];Ischemia [surgery];Leg [blood supply];Limb Salvage [methods];Prosthesis Design;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Vascular Patency;Humans[checkword]
CC: PVD
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007921.pub2
AB: Background: The use of prosthetic grafts such as polytetrafluorethylene (PTFE) or Dacron to bypass occluded arteries in the lower leg is an accepted practice in the absence of suitable autologous vein. The aim is limb salvage or functional improvement in critical limb ischaemia, but patency rates for below knee prosthetic bypasses are low. Creating a vein cuff at the distal anastomosis is thought to improve outcomes. Other techniques including the use of pre-cuffed synthetic grafts, spliced segments of vein and the creation of an arterio-venous fistula (AVF) are also used to improve patency.Objectives: To compare the beneficial effects of using vein cuffed prosthetic grafts for below knee bypass in critical limb ischaemia with other types of reconstruction.Search methods: The Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Group Trials Search Co-ordinator searched the Specialised Register (last searched May 2012) and CENTRAL (2012, Issue 5) for publications comparing prosthetic infragenicular bypass using vein cuffs with other bypass techniques.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials comparing interposition vein cuff prosthetic graft with autologous vein graft and non-cuffed prosthetic graft for infragenicular bypass in patients with critical limb ischaemia were included. Trials comparing vein cuff prosthetic grafts with or without AVF and vein cuff prosthetic grafts with pre-cuffed prosthetic grafts were also included.Data collection and analysis: The trials were selected and assessed independently by two review authors.Main results: Six trials with a combined total of 885 patients were included in this review. Only studies using prosthetic PTFE grafts were identified.Two trials compared PTFE graft with or without a vein cuff. In one underpowered trial for below knee bypass the cumulative primary patency rate was statistically significantly higher in the vein cuff group (80.3% versus 65.3% at 12 months and 51.8% versus 29.1% at 24 months, P = 0.03). There was no statistically significant difference in secondary patency (82.9% versus 72.5% and 58.6% versus 34.9%, P = 0.14) and limb salvage rates (86.3% versus 71.8% and 82.6% versus 62.2%, P = 0.08) at 12 and 24 months respectively. The other trial showed no statistically significant difference between the groups at three years in the below knee femoro-popliteal bypasses (primary patency rate 26% (95% confidence interval (CI) 18 to 38) and 43% (95% CI 33 to 58), secondary patency rate 32% (95% CI 23 to 44) and 42% (95% CI 31 to 56) and limb salvage rate 64% (95% CI 54 to 75) and 61% (95% CI 50 to 74) in the collar and no collar groups respectively). In the femoro-distal bypass group, the differences in primary patency, secondary patency and limb salvage rates were also not statistically significant at three years (primary patency rate 20% (95% CI 11 to 38) and 17% (95% CI 9 to 33), secondary patency rate 22% (95% CI 12 to 39) and 20% (95% CI 11 to 35) and limb salvage rate 59% (95% CI 46 to 76) and 44% (95% CI 32 to 61) in the collar and no collar groups respectively).One trial compared pre-cuffed PTFE grafts with vein cuffed grafts. There was no statistically significant difference in primary patency rate (62% pre-cuffed PTFE versus 52% vein cuff PTFE and 49% versus 44%, P = 0.53), secondary patency rate (66% pre-cuffed PTFE versus 53% vein cuff PTFE and 55% versus 50%, P = 0.30) or limb salvage rate (75% pre-cuffed PTFE versus 72% vein cuff PTFE and 62% versus 65%, P = 0.88) at 12 and 24 months respectively.One trial compared spliced vein grafts with vein cuffed PTFE grafts. At 24 months, the secondary patency rate was statistically significantly higher in the spliced vein group (86% in the spliced vein and 52% in the vein cuff group, P < 0.05). There was no statistical significant difference in primary patency rate (44% versus 50%, P > 0.05) and limb salvage rate (94% versus 85%, P > 0.05).Two trials compared vein cuff PTFE grafts with and without AVF. There was no statistical significant difference at 24 months in primary patency rate (29% versus 36%, P = 0.77; 32% versus 28%, P = 0.2), secondary patency rate (40% versus 40%, P = 0.89; 28% versus 24%, P = 0.2) and limb salvage rate (65% versus 70%, P = 0.97; 62% versus 71%, P = 0.3).Authors' conclusions: There is some evidence that a vein cuff at the distal anastomosis site improves primary graft patency rates for below knee PTFE graft, but this does not reduce the risk of limb loss. Evidence for this beneficial effect of vein cuffed PTFE grafts is weak and based on an underpowered trial. Pre-cuffed PTFE grafts have comparable patency and limb salvage rates to vein cuff PTFE grafts. The use of spliced veins improved secondary patency but this did not translate into improved limb salvage. The use of an AVF alone showed no added benefits. A large study with a specific focus on below knee vein cuff prosthetic grafts, including PTFE, is required.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD007921.pub2/abstract


Record #20 of 54
ID: CD009727
AU: Levack William MM
AU: Weatherall Mark
AU: Hay-Smith E. Jean C
AU: Dean Sarah G
AU: McPherson Kathryn
AU: Siegert Richard J
TI: Goal setting and strategies to enhance goal pursuit for adults with acquired disability participating in rehabilitation
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Goals;Disabled Persons [rehabilitation];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: COMMUN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009727.pub2
AB: Background: Goal setting is considered a key component of rehabilitation for adults with acquired disability, yet there is little consensus regarding the best strategies for undertaking goal setting and in which clinical contexts. It has also been unclear what effect, if any, goal setting has on health outcomes after rehabilitation.Objectives: To assess the effects of goal setting and strategies to enhance the pursuit of goals (i.e. how goals and progress towards goals are communicated, used, or shared) on improving health outcomes in adults with acquired disability participating in rehabilitation.Search methods: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, four other databases and three trials registers to December 2013, together with reference checking, citation searching and contact with study authors to identify additional studies. We did not impose any language or date restrictions.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster-RCTs and quasi-RCTs evaluating the effects of goal setting or strategies to enhance goal pursuit in the context of adult rehabilitation for acquired disability.Data collection and analysis: Two authors independently reviewed search results for inclusion. Grey literature searches were conducted and reviewed by a single author. Two authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias for included studies. We contacted study authors for additional information.Main results: We included 39 studies (27 RCTs, 6 cluster-RCTs, and 6 quasi-RCTs) involving 2846 participants in total. Studies ranged widely regarding clinical context and participants' primary health conditions. The most common health conditions included musculoskeletal disorders, brain injury, chronic pain, mental health conditions, and cardiovascular disease.Eighteen studies compared goal setting, with or without strategies to enhance goal pursuit, to no goal setting. These studies provide very low quality evidence that including any type of goal setting in the practice of adult rehabilitation is better than no goal setting for health-related quality of life or self-reported emotional status (8 studies; 446 participants; standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.53, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.17 to 0.88, indicative of a moderate effect size) and self-efficacy (3 studies; 108 participants; SMD 1.07, 95% CI 0.64 to 1.49, indicative of a moderate to large effect size). The evidence is inconclusive regarding whether goal setting results in improvements in social participation or activity levels, body structure or function, or levels of patient engagement in the rehabilitation process. Insufficient data are available to determine whether or not goal setting is associated with more or fewer adverse events compared to no goal setting.Fourteen studies compared structured goal setting approaches, with or without strategies to enhance goal pursuit, to 'usual care' that may have involved some goal setting but where no structured approach was followed. These studies provide very low quality evidence that more structured goal setting results in higher patient self-efficacy (2 studies; 134 participants; SMD 0.37, 95% CI 0.02 to 0.71, indicative of a small effect size) and low quality evidence for greater satisfaction with service delivery (5 studies; 309 participants; SMD 0.33, 95% CI 0.10 to 0.56, indicative of a small effect size). The evidence was inconclusive regarding whether more structured goal setting approaches result in higher health-related quality of life or self-reported emotional status, social participation, activity levels, or improvements in body structure or function. Three studies in this group reported on adverse events (death, re-hospitalisation, or worsening symptoms), but insufficient data are available to determine whether structured goal setting is associated with more or fewer adverse events than usual care.A moderate degree of heterogeneity was observed in outcomes across all studies, but an insufficient number of studies was available to permit subgroup analysis to explore the reasons for this heterogeneity. The review also considers studies which investigate the effects of different approaches to enhancing goal pursuit, and studies which investigate different structured goal setting approaches. It also reports on secondary outcomes including goal attainment and healthcare utilisation.Authors' conclusions: There is some very low quality evidence that goal setting may improve some outcomes for adults receiving rehabilitation for acquired disability. The best of this evidence appears to favour positive effects for psychosocial outcomes (i.e. health-related quality of life, emotional status, and self-efficacy) rather than physical ones. Due to study limitations, there is considerable uncertainty regarding these effects however, and further research is highly likely to change reported estimates of effect.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD009727.pub2/abstract


Record #21 of 54
ID: CD000265
AU: O'Meara Susan
AU: Cullum Nicky
AU: Nelson E Andrea
AU: Dumville Jo C
TI: Compression for venous leg ulcers
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2012
NO: 11
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Bandages [economics];Stockings, Compression [economics];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Varicose Ulcer [therapy];Wound Healing;Humans[checkword]
CC: WOUNDS
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD000265.pub3
AB: Background: Up to one percent of people in industrialised countries will suffer from a leg ulcer at some time. The majority of these leg ulcers are due to problems in the veins, resulting in an accumulation of blood in the legs. Leg ulcers arising from venous problems are called venous (or varicose or stasis) ulcers. The main treatment is the application of a firm compression garment (bandage or stocking) in order to aid venous return. There is a large number of compression garments available and it was unclear whether they are effective in treating venous ulcers and, if so, which method of compression is the most effective.Objectives: To undertake a systematic review of all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the effects on venous ulcer healing of compression bandages and stockings.Specific questions addressed by the review are:1. Does the application of compression bandages or stockings aid venous ulcer healing?   2. Which compression bandage or stocking system is the most effective?Search methods: For this second update we searched: the Cochrane Wounds Group Specialised Register (31 May 2012); the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library Issue 5, 2012); Ovid MEDLINE (1950 to May Week 4 2012); Ovid MEDLINE (In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations 30 May 2012); Ovid EMBASE (1980 to 2012 Week 21); and EBSCO CINAHL (1982 to 30 May 2012). No date or language restrictions were applied.Selection criteria: RCTs recruiting people with venous leg ulceration that evaluated any type of compression bandage system or compression stockings were eligible for inclusion. Eligible comparators included no compression (e.g. primary dressing alone, non-compressive bandage) or an alternative type of compression. RCTs had to report an objective measure of ulcer healing in order to be included (primary outcome for the review). Secondary outcomes of the review included ulcer recurrence, costs, quality of life, pain, adverse events and withdrawals. There was no restriction on date, language or publication status of RCTs.Data collection and analysis: Details of eligible studies were extracted and summarised using a data extraction table. Data extraction was performed by one review author and verified independently by a second review author.Main results: Forty-eight RCTs reporting 59 comparisons were included (4321 participants in total). Most RCTs were small, and most were at unclear or high risk of bias. Duration of follow-up varied across RCTs. Risk ratio (RR) and other estimates are shown below where RCTs were pooled; otherwise findings refer to a single RCT.There was evidence from eight RCTs (unpooled) that healing outcomes (including time to healing) are better when patients receive compression compared with no compression.Single-component compression bandage systems are less effective than multi-component compression for complete healing at six months (one large RCT).A two-component system containing an elastic bandage healed more ulcers at one year than one without an elastic component (one small RCT).Three-component systems containing an elastic component healed more ulcers than those without elastic at three to four months (two RCTs pooled), RR 1.83 (95% CI 1.26 to 2.67), but another RCT showed no difference between groups at six months.An individual patient data meta-analysis of five RCTs suggested significantly faster healing with the four-layer bandage (4LB) than the short stretch bandage (SSB): median days to healing estimated at 90 and 99 respectively; hazard ratio 1.31 (95% CI 1.09 to 1.58).High-compression stockings are associated with better healing outcomes than SSB at two to four months: RR 1.62 (95% CI 1.26 to 2.10), estimate from four pooled RCTs.One RCT suggested better healing outcomes at 16 months with the addition of a tubular device plus single elastic bandage to a base system of gauze and crepe bandages when compared with two added elastic bandages. Another RCT had three arms; when one or two elastic bandages were added to a base three-component system that included an outer tubular layer, healing outcomes were better at six months for the two groups receiving elastic bandages.There is currently no evidence of a statistically significant difference for the following comparisons:?alternative single-component compression bandages (two RCTs, unpooled);   ?two-component bandages compared with the 4LB at three months (three RCTs pooled);   ?alternative versions of the 4LB for complete healing at times up to and including six months (three RCTs, unpooled);   ?4LB compared with paste bandage for complete healing at three months (two RCTs, pooled), six months or one year (one RCT for each time point);   ?adjustable compression boots compared with paste bandages for the outcome of change in ulcer area at three months (one small RCT);   ?adjustable compression boots compared with the 4LB with respect to complete healing at three months (one small RCT);   ?single-layer compression stocking compared with paste bandages for outcome of complete healing at four months (one small RCT) and 18 months (another small RCT);   ?low compression stocking compared with SSB for complete healing at three and six months (one small RCT);   ?compression stockings compared with a two-component bandage system and the 4LB for the outcome of complete healing at three months (one small, three-armed RCT); and,   ?tubular compression compared with SSB (one small RCT) for complete healing at three months.Secondary outcomes: 4LB was more cost-effective than SSB. It was not possible to draw firm conclusions regarding other secondary outcomes including recurrence, adverse events and health-related quality of life.Authors' conclusions: Compression increases ulcer healing rates compared with no compression. Multi-component systems are more effective than single-component systems. Multi-component systems containing an elastic bandage appear to be more effective than those composed mainly of inelastic constituents. Two-component bandage systems appear to perform as well as the 4LB. Patients receiving the 4LB heal faster than those allocated the SSB. More patients heal on high-compression stocking systems than with the SSB. Further data are required before the difference between high-compression stockings and the 4LB can be established.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD000265.pub3/abstract


Record #22 of 54
ID: CD000125
AU: Flodgren Gerd
AU: Parmelli Elena
AU: Doumit Gaby
AU: Gattellari Melina
AU: O'Brien Mary Ann
AU: Grimshaw Jeremy
AU: Eccles Martin P
TI: Local opinion leaders: effects on professional practice and health care outcomes
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2011
NO: 8
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Leadership;Policy Making;Evidence-Based Medicine [standards];Information Dissemination;Practice Patterns, Physicians';Process Assessment (Health Care);Professional Practice [standards];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Humans[checkword]
CC: EPOC
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD000125.pub4
AB: Background: Clinical practice is not always evidence-based and, therefore, may not optimise patient outcomes. Opinion leaders disseminating and implementing 'best evidence' is one method that holds promise as a strategy to bridge evidence-practice gaps.Objectives: To assess the effectiveness of the use of local opinion leaders in improving professional practice and patient outcomes.Search methods: We searched Cochrane EPOC Group Trials Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE, HMIC, Science Citation Index, Social Science Citation Index, ISI Conference Proceedings and World Cat Dissertations up to 5 May 2009. In addition, we searched reference lists of included articles.Selection criteria: Studies eligible for inclusion were randomised controlled trials investigating the effectiveness of using opinion leaders to disseminate evidence-based practice and reporting objective measures of professional performance and/or health outcomes.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently extracted data from each study and assessed its risk of bias. For each trial, we calculated the median risk difference (RD) for compliance with desired practice, adjusting for baseline where data were available. We reported the median adjusted RD for each of the main comparisons.Main results: We included 18 studies involving more than 296 hospitals and 318 PCPs. Fifteen studies (18 comparisons) contributed to the calculations of the median adjusted RD for the main comparisons. The effects of interventions varied across the 63 outcomes from 15% decrease in compliance to 72% increase in compliance with desired practice. The median adjusted RD for the main comparisons were: i) Opinion leaders compared to no intervention, +0.09; ii) Opinion leaders alone compared to a single intervention, +0.14; iii) Opinion leaders with one or more additional intervention(s) compared to the one or more additional intervention(s), +0.10; iv) Opinion leaders as part of multiple interventions compared to no intervention, +0.10. Overall, across all 18 studies the median adjusted RD was +0.12 representing a 12% absolute increase in compliance in the intervention group.Authors' conclusions: Opinion leaders alone or in combination with other interventions may successfully promote evidence-based practice, but effectiveness varies both within and between studies. These results are based on heterogeneous studies differing in terms of type of intervention, setting, and outcomes measured. In most of the studies the role of the opinion leader was not clearly described, and it is therefore not possible to say what the best way is to optimise the effectiveness of opinion leaders.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD000125.pub4/abstract


Record #23 of 54
ID: CD007087
AU: López-Alcalde Jesús
AU: Mateos-Mazón Marta
AU: Guevara Marcela
AU: Conterno Lucieni O
AU: Solà Ivan
AU: Cabir Nunes Sheila
AU: Bonfill Cosp Xavier
TI: Gloves, gowns and masks for reducing the transmission of meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in the hospital setting
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Masks;Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus;Protective Clothing;Cross Infection [prevention & control] [transmission];Gloves, Protective;Staphylococcal Infections [prevention & control] [transmission];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: WOUNDS
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007087.pub2
AB: Background: Meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA; also known as methicillin-resistant S aureus) is a common hospital-acquired pathogen that increases morbidity, mortality, and healthcare costs. Its control continues to be an unresolved issue in many hospitals worldwide. The evidence base for the effects of the use of gloves, gowns or masks as control measures for MRSA is unclear.Objectives: To assess the effectiveness of wearing gloves, a gown or a mask when contact is anticipated with a hospitalised patient colonised or infected with MRSA, or with the patient's immediate environment.Search methods: We searched the Specialised Registers of three Cochrane Groups (Wounds Group on 5 June 2015; Effective Practice and Organisation of Care (EPOC) Group on 9 July 2013; and Infectious Diseases Group on 5 January 2009); CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2015, Issue 6); DARE, HTA, NHS EED, and the Methodology Register (The Cochrane Library 2015, Issue 6); MEDLINE and MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations (1946 to June week 1 2015); EMBASE (1974 to 4 June 2015); Web of Science (WOS) Core Collection (from inception to 7 June 2015); CINAHL (1982 to 5 June 2015); British Nursing Index (1985 to 6 July 2010); and ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Database (1639 to 11 June 2015). We also searched three trials registers (on 6 June 2015), references list of articles, and conference proceedings. We finally contacted relevant individuals for additional studies.Selection criteria: Studies assessing the effects on MRSA transmission of the use of gloves, gowns or masks by any person in the hospital setting when contact is anticipated with a hospitalised patient colonised or infected with MRSA, or with the patient's immediate environment. We did not assess adverse effects or economic issues associated with these interventions.We considered any comparator to be eligible. With regard to study design, only randomised controlled trials (clustered or not) and the following non-randomised experimental studies were eligible: quasi-randomised controlled trials (clustered or not), non-randomised controlled trials (clustered or not), controlled before-and-after studies, controlled cohort before-after studies, interrupted time series studies (controlled or not), and repeated measures studies. We did not exclude any study on the basis of language or date of publication.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently decided on eligibility of the studies. Had any study having been included, two review authors would have extracted data (at least for outcome data) and assessed the risk of bias independently. We would have followed the standard methodological procedures suggested by Cochrane and the Cochrane EPOC Group for assessing risk of bias and analysing the data.Main results: We identified no eligible studies for this review, either completed or ongoing.Authors' conclusions: We found no studies assessing the effects of wearing gloves, gowns or masks for contact with MRSA hospitalised patients, or with their immediate environment, on the transmission of MRSA to patients, hospital staff, patients' caregivers or visitors. This absence of evidence should not be interpreted as evidence of no effect for these interventions. The effects of gloves, gowns and masks in these circumstances have yet to be determined by rigorous experimental studies, such as cluster-randomised trials involving multiple wards or hospitals, or interrupted time series studies.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD007087.pub2/abstract


Record #24 of 54
ID: CD010653
AU: Soares-Weiser Karla
AU: Maayan Nicola
AU: Bergman Hanna
AU: Davenport Clare
AU: Kirkham Amanda J
AU: Grabowski Sarah
AU: Adams Clive E
TI: First rank symptoms for schizophrenia
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 1
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
CC: SCHIZ
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010653.pub2
AB: Background: Early and accurate diagnosis and treatment of schizophrenia may have long-term advantages for the patient; the longer psychosis goes untreated the more severe the repercussions for relapse and recovery. If the correct diagnosis is not schizophrenia, but another psychotic disorder with some symptoms similar to schizophrenia, appropriate treatment might be delayed, with possible severe repercussions for the person involved and their family. There is widespread uncertainty about the diagnostic accuracy of First Rank Symptoms (FRS); we examined whether they are a useful diagnostic tool to differentiate schizophrenia from other psychotic disorders.Objectives: To determine the diagnostic accuracy of one or multiple FRS for diagnosing schizophrenia, verified by clinical history and examination by a qualified professional (e.g. psychiatrists, nurses, social workers), with or without the use of operational criteria and checklists, in people thought to have non-organic psychotic symptoms.Search methods: We conducted searches in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and PsycInfo using OvidSP in April, June, July 2011 and December 2012. We also searched MEDION in December 2013.Selection criteria: We selected studies that consecutively enrolled or randomly selected adults and adolescents with symptoms of psychosis, and assessed the diagnostic accuracy of FRS for schizophrenia compared to history and clinical examination performed by a qualified professional, which may or may not involve the use of symptom checklists or based on operational criteria such as ICD and DSM.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently screened all references for inclusion. Risk of bias in included studies were assessed using the QUADAS-2 instrument. We recorded the number of true positives (TP), true negatives (TN), false positives (FP), and false negatives (FN) for constructing a 2 x 2 table for each study or derived 2 x 2 data from reported summary statistics such as sensitivity, specificity, and/or likelihood ratios.Main results: We included 21 studies with a total of 6253 participants (5515 were included in the analysis). Studies were conducted from 1974 to 2011, with 80% of the studies conducted in the 1970's, 1980's or 1990's. Most studies did not report study methods sufficiently and many had high applicability concerns. In 20 studies, FRS differentiated schizophrenia from all other diagnoses with a sensitivity of 57% (50.4% to 63.3%), and a specificity of 81.4% (74% to 87.1%) In seven studies, FRS differentiated schizophrenia from non-psychotic mental health disorders with a sensitivity of 61.8% (51.7% to 71%) and a specificity of 94.1% (88% to 97.2%). In sixteen studies, FRS differentiated schizophrenia from other types of psychosis with a sensitivity of 58% (50.3% to 65.3%) and a specificity of 74.7% (65.2% to 82.3%).Authors' conclusions: The synthesis of old studies of limited quality in this review indicates that FRS correctly identifies people with schizophrenia 75% to 95% of the time. The use of FRS to diagnose schizophrenia in triage will incorrectly diagnose around five to 19 people in every 100 who have FRS as having schizophrenia and specialists will not agree with this diagnosis. These people will still merit specialist assessment and help due to the severity of disturbance in their behaviour and mental state. Again, with a sensitivity of FRS of 60%, reliance on FRS to diagnose schizophrenia in triage will not correctly diagnose around 40% of people that specialists will consider to have schizophrenia. Some of these people may experience a delay in getting appropriate treatment. Others, whom specialists will consider to have schizophrenia, could be prematurely discharged from care, if triage relies on the presence of FRS to diagnose schizophrenia. Empathetic, considerate use of FRS as a diagnostic aid - with known limitations - should avoid a good proportion of these errors.We hope that newer tests - to be included in future Cochrane reviews - will show better results. However, symptoms of first rank can still be helpful where newer tests are not available - a situation which applies to the initial screening of most people with suspected schizophrenia. FRS remain a simple, quick and useful clinical indicator for an illness of enormous clinical variability.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD010653.pub2/abstract


Record #25 of 54
ID: CD000425
AU: Brady Marian C
AU: Kelly Helen
AU: Godwin Jon
AU: Enderby Pam
AU: Campbell Pauline
TI: Speech and language therapy for aphasia following stroke
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2016
NO: 6
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Language Therapy;Social Support;Speech Therapy;Aphasia [etiology] [therapy];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Stroke [complications];Humans[checkword]
CC: STROKE
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD000425.pub4
AB: Background: Aphasia is an acquired language impairment following brain damage that affects some or all language modalities: expression and understanding of speech, reading, and writing. Approximately one third of people who have a stroke experience aphasia.Objectives: To assess the effects of speech and language therapy (SLT) for aphasia following stroke.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (last searched 9 September 2015), CENTRAL (2015, Issue 5) and other Cochrane Library Databases (CDSR, DARE, HTA, to 22 September 2015), MEDLINE (1946 to September 2015), EMBASE (1980 to September 2015), CINAHL (1982 to September 2015), AMED (1985 to September 2015), LLBA (1973 to September 2015), and SpeechBITE (2008 to September 2015). We also searched major trials registers for ongoing trials including ClinicalTrials.gov (to 21 September 2015), the Stroke Trials Registry (to 21 September 2015), Current Controlled Trials (to 22 September 2015), and WHO ICTRP (to 22 September 2015). In an effort to identify further published, unpublished, and ongoing trials we also handsearched the International Journal of Language and Communication Disorders (1969 to 2005) and reference lists of relevant articles, and we contacted academic institutions and other researchers. There were no language restrictions.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing SLT (a formal intervention that aims to improve language and communication abilities, activity and participation) versus no SLT; social support or stimulation (an intervention that provides social support and communication stimulation but does not include targeted therapeutic interventions); or another SLT intervention (differing in duration, intensity, frequency, intervention methodology or theoretical approach).Data collection and analysis: We independently extracted the data and assessed the quality of included trials. We sought missing data from investigators.Main results: We included 57 RCTs (74 randomised comparisons) involving 3002 participants in this review (some appearing in more than one comparison). Twenty-seven randomised comparisons (1620 participants) assessed SLT versus no SLT; SLT resulted in clinically and statistically significant benefits to patients' functional communication (standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.28, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.06 to 0.49, P = 0.01), reading, writing, and expressive language, but (based on smaller numbers) benefits were not evident at follow-up. Nine randomised comparisons (447 participants) assessed SLT with social support and stimulation; meta-analyses found no evidence of a difference in functional communication, but more participants withdrew from social support interventions than SLT. Thirty-eight randomised comparisons (1242 participants) assessed two approaches to SLT. Functional communication was significantly better in people with aphasia that received therapy at a high intensity, high dose, or over a long duration compared to those that received therapy at a lower intensity, lower dose, or over a shorter period of time. The benefits of a high intensity or a high dose of SLT were confounded by a significantly higher dropout rate in these intervention groups. Generally, trials randomised small numbers of participants across a range of characteristics (age, time since stroke, and severity profiles), interventions, and outcomes.Authors' conclusions: Our review provides evidence of the effectiveness of SLT for people with aphasia following stroke in terms of improved functional communication, reading, writing, and expressive language compared with no therapy. There is some indication that therapy at high intensity, high dose or over a longer period may be beneficial. HIgh-intensity and high dose interventions may not be acceptable to all.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD000425.pub4/abstract


Record #26 of 54
ID: CD009669
AU: Unverzagt Susanne
AU: Wachsmuth Lisa
AU: Hirsch Katharina
AU: Thiele Holger
AU: Buerke Michael
AU: Haerting Johannes
AU: Werdan Karl
AU: Prondzinsky Roland
TI: Inotropic agents and vasodilator strategies for acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock or low cardiac output syndrome
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 1
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Cardiac Output, Low [drug therapy] [etiology];Cardiotonic Agents [therapeutic use];Dobutamine [therapeutic use];Enoximone [therapeutic use];Hydrazones [therapeutic use];Myocardial Infarction [complications];Nitric Oxide [therapeutic use];Pyridazines [therapeutic use];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Shock, Cardiogenic [drug therapy] [etiology];Vasodilator Agents [therapeutic use];Humans[checkword]
CC: VASC
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009669.pub2
AB: Background: The recently published German-Austrian S3 Guideline for the treatment of infarct related cardiogenic shock (CS) revealed a lack of evidence for all recommended therapeutic measures.Objectives: To determine the effects in terms of efficacy, efficiency and safety of cardiac care with inotropic agents and vasodilator strategies versus placebo or against each other for haemodynamic stabilisation following surgical treatment, interventional therapy (angioplasty, stent implantation) and conservative treatment (that is no revascularization) on mortality and morbidity in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) complicated by CS or low cardiac output syndrome (LCOS).Search methods: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE (Ovid), EMBASE (Ovid) and ISI Web of Science, registers of ongoing trials and proceedings of conferences in January 2013. Reference lists were scanned and experts in the field were contacted to obtain further information. No language restrictions were applied.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials in patients with AMI complicated by CS or LCOS.Data collection and analysis: Data collection and analysis were performed according to the published protocol. All trials were analysed individually. Hazard ratios (HRs) and odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were extracted but not pooled because of high heterogeneity between the control group interventions.Main results: Four eligible, very small studies were identified from a total of 4065 references. Three trials with high overall risk of bias compared levosimendan to standard treatment (enoximone or dobutamine) or placebo. Data from a total of 63 participants were included in our comparisons, 31 were treated with levosimendan and 32 served as controls. Levosimendan showed an imprecise survival benefit in comparison with enoximone based on a very small trial with 32 participants (HR 0.33; 95% CI 0.11 to 0.97). Results from the other similarly small trials were too imprecise to provide any meaningful information about the effect of levosimendan in comparison with dobutamine or placebo. Only small differences in haemodynamics, length of hospital stay and the frequency of major adverse cardiac events or adverse events overall were found between study groups.Only one small randomised controlled trial with three participants was found for vasodilator strategies (nitric oxide gas versus placebo) in AMI complicated by CS or LCOS. This study was too small to draw any conclusions on the effects on our key outcomes.Authors' conclusions: At present there are no robust and convincing data to support a distinct inotropic or vasodilator drug based therapy as a superior solution to reduce mortality in haemodynamically unstable patients with CS or low cardiac output complicating AMI.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD009669.pub2/abstract


Record #27 of 54
ID: CD007786
AU: Phillips Robert S
AU: Friend Amanda J
AU: Gibson Faith
AU: Houghton Elizabeth
AU: Gopaul Shireen
AU: Craig Jean V
AU: Pizer Barry
TI: Antiemetic medication for prevention and treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in childhood
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2016
NO: 2
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Antiemetics [adverse effects] [therapeutic use];Antineoplastic Agents [adverse effects];Dexamethasone [therapeutic use];Drug Therapy, Combination [adverse effects] [methods];Nausea [chemically induced] [drug therapy] [prevention & control];Neoplasms [drug therapy];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Serotonin Antagonists [adverse effects] [therapeutic use];Vomiting [chemically induced] [drug therapy] [prevention & control];Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: CHILDCA
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007786.pub3
AB: Background: Nausea and vomiting remain a problem for children undergoing treatment for malignancies despite new antiemetic therapies. Optimising antiemetic regimens could improve quality of life by reducing nausea, vomiting, and associated clinical problems. This is an update of the original systematic review.Objectives: To assess the effectiveness and adverse events of pharmacological interventions in controlling anticipatory, acute, and delayed nausea and vomiting in children and young people (aged less than 18 years) about to receive or receiving chemotherapy.Search methods: Searches included the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, PsycINFO, conference proceedings of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, International Society of Paediatric Oncology, Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer, and ISI Science and Technology Proceedings Index from incept to December 16, 2014, and trial registries from their earliest records to December 2014. We examined references of systematic reviews and contacted trialists for information on further studies. We also screened the reference lists of included studies.Selection criteria: Two review authors independently screened abstracts in order to identify randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared a pharmacological antiemetic, cannabinoid, or benzodiazepine with placebo or any alternative active intervention in children and young people (less than 18 years) with a diagnosis of cancer who were to receive chemotherapy.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently extracted outcome and quality data from each RCT. When appropriate, we undertook meta-analysis.Main results: We included 34 studies that examined a range of different antiemetics, used different doses and comparators, and reported a variety of outcomes. The quality and quantity of included studies limited the exploration of heterogeneity to narrative approaches only.The majority of quantitative data related to the complete control of acute vomiting (27 studies). Adverse events were reported in 29 studies and nausea outcomes in 16 studies.Two studies assessed the addition of dexamethasone to 5-HT3 antagonists for complete control of vomiting (pooled risk ratio (RR) 2.03; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.35 to 3.04). Three studies compared granisetron 20 mcg/kg with 40 mcg/kg for complete control of vomiting (pooled RR 0.93; 95% CI 0.80 to 1.07). Three studies compared granisetron with ondansetron for complete control of acute nausea (pooled RR 1.05; 95% CI 0.94 to 1.17; 2 studies), acute vomiting (pooled RR 2.26; 95% CI 2.04 to 2.51; 3 studies), delayed nausea (pooled RR 1.13; 95% CI 0.93 to 1.38; 2 studies), and delayed vomiting (pooled RR 1.13; 95% CI 0.98 to 1.29; 2 studies). No other pooled analyses were possible.Narrative synthesis suggests that 5-HT3 antagonists are more effective than older antiemetic agents, even when these agents are combined with a steroid. Cannabinoids are probably effective but produce frequent side effects.Authors' conclusions: Our overall knowledge of the most effective antiemetics to prevent chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in childhood is incomplete. Future research should be undertaken in consultation with children, young people, and families that have experienced chemotherapy and should make use of validated, age-appropriate measures. This review suggests that 5-HT3 antagonists are effective in patients who are to receive emetogenic chemotherapy, with granisetron or palonosetron possibly better than ondansetron. Adding dexamethasone improves control of vomiting, although the risk-benefit profile of adjunctive steroid remains uncertain.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD007786.pub3/abstract


Record #28 of 54
ID: CD008408
AU: Harrison Denise
AU: Yamada Janet
AU: Adams-Webber Thomasin
AU: Ohlsson Arne
AU: Beyene Joseph
AU: Stevens Bonnie
TI: Sweet tasting solutions for reduction of needle-related procedural pain in children aged one to 16 years
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 5
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Candy;Needles;Age Factors;Chewing Gum;Pain [physiopathology] [prevention & control];Pain Measurement [methods];Punctures [adverse effects];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Sucrose [administration & dosage];Sweetening Agents [administration & dosage];Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Child, Preschool[checkword];Humans[checkword];Infant[checkword]
CC: SYMPT
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008408.pub3
AB: Background: Extensive evidence exists showing analgesic effects of sweet solutions for newborns and infants. It is less certain if the same analgesic effects exist for children one year to 16 years of age. This is an updated version of the original Cochrane review published in Issue 10, 2011 (Harrison 2011) titled Sweet tasting solutions for reduction of needle-related procedural pain in children aged one to 16 years.Objectives: To determine the efficacy of sweet tasting solutions or substances for reducing needle-related procedural pain in children beyond one year of age.Search methods: Searches were run to the end of June 2014. We searched the following databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE), Cochrane Methodology Register, Health Technology Assessment, the NHS Economic Evaluation Database, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, and ACP Journal Club (all via OvidSP), and CINAH (via EBSCOhost). We applied no language restrictions.Selection criteria: Published or unpublished randomised controlled trials (RCT) in which children aged one year to 16 years, received a sweet tasting solution or substance for needle-related procedural pain. Control conditions included water, non-sweet tasting substances, pacifier, distraction, positioning/containment, breastfeeding, or no treatment.Data collection and analysis: Outcome measures included crying duration, composite pain scores, physiological or behavioral pain indicators, self-report of pain or parental or healthcare professional-report of the child's pain. We reported mean differences (MD), weighted mean difference (WMD), or standardized mean difference (SMD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) using fixed-effect or random-effects models as appropriate for continuous outcome measures. We reported risk ratio (RR), risk difference (RD), and the number needed to treat to benefit (NNTB) for dichotomous outcomes. We used the I2 statistic to assess between-study heterogeneity.Main results: We included one unpublished and seven published studies (total of 808 participants); four more studies and 478 more participants than the 2011 review. Six trials included young children aged one to four years receiving sucrose or candy lollypops for immunisation pain compared with water or no treatment. Usual care included topical anaesthetics, upright parental holding, and distraction. All studies were well designed blinded RCTs, however, five of the six studies had a high risk of bias based on small sample sizes.Two studies included school-aged children receiving sweet or unsweetened chewing gum before, or before and during, immunisation and blood collection. Both studies, conducted by the same author, had a high risk of bias based on small sample sizes.Results for the toddlers/pre-school children were conflicting. Duration of cry, using a random-effects model, was not significantly reduced by sweet taste (six trials, 520 children, WMD -15 seconds, 95% CI -54 to 24, I2 = 94%).Composite pain score at time of first needle was reported in four studies (n = 121 children). The scores were not significantly different between the sucrose and control group (SMD -0.26, 95% CI -1.27 to 0.75, I2 = 86%).A Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale score > 4 was significantly less common in the sucrose group compared to the control group in one study (n = 472, RR 0.55, 95% CI 0.45 to 0.67; RD -0.29, 95% CI -0.37 to -0.20; NNTB 3, 95% CI 3 to 5; tests for heterogeneity not applicable.For school-aged children, chewing sweet gum before needle-related painful procedures (two studies, n = 111 children) or during the procedures (two studies, n = 103 children) did not significantly reduce pain scores. A comparison of the Faces Pain Scale scores in children chewing sweet gum before the procedures compared with scores of children chewing unsweetened gum revealed a WMD of -0.15 (95% CI -0.61 to 0.30). Similar results were found when comparing the chewing of sweet gum with unsweetened gum during the procedure (WMD 0.23, 95% CI -0.28 to 0.74). The Colored Analogue Scale for children chewing sweet gum compared to unsweetened gum before the procedure was not significantly different (WMD 0.24 (-0.69 to 1.18)) nor was it different when children chewed the gum during the procedure (WMD 0.86 (95% CI -0.12 to 1.83)). There was no heterogeneity for any of these analyses in school-aged children (I2 = 0%).Authors' conclusions: Based on the eight studies included in this systematic review update, two of which were subgroups of small numbers of eligible toddlers from larger studies, and three of which were pilot RCTs with small numbers of participants, there is insufficient evidence of the analgesic effects of sweet tasting solutions or substances during acutely painful procedures in young children between one and four years of age. Further rigorously conducted, adequately powered RCTs are warranted in this population. Based on the two studies by the same author, there was no evidence of analgesic effects of sweet taste in school-aged children. As there are other effective evidence-based strategies available to use in this age group, further trials are not warranted.Despite the addition of four studies in this review, conclusions have not changed since the last version of the review.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD008408.pub3/abstract


Record #29 of 54
ID: CD007082
AU: Mathew Preethy J
AU: Mathew Joseph L
TI: Early versus late removal of the laryngeal mask airway (LMA) for general anaesthesia
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 8
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Anesthesia, General;Device Removal [adverse effects];Laryngeal Masks;Airway Obstruction [etiology];Anesthesia Recovery Period;Cough [etiology];Laryngismus [etiology];Oxygen [blood];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Time Factors;Adult[checkword];Child[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: ANAESTH
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007082.pub2
AB: Background: The laryngeal mask airway (LMA) is a safe and effective modality to maintain the airway for general anaesthesia during surgical procedures. The LMA is removed at the end of surgery and anaesthesia, when the patient maintains an adequate respiratory rate and depth. This removal of the LMA can be done either when the patient is deep under anaesthesia (early removal) or only after the patient has regained consciousness (late removal). It is not clear which of these techniques is superior.Objectives: The objective of this review was to compare the safety of LMA removal in the deep plane of anaesthesia (early removal) versus removal in the awake state (late removal) for participants undergoing general anaesthesia.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2014, Issue 8); MEDLINE (1966 to August 2014); EMBASE (1980 to August 2014); LILACS (1982 to August 2014); CINAHL (WebSPIRS; 1984 to August 2014); and ISI Web of Science (1984 to August 2014). We searched for ongoing trials through various trial registration websites. In addition, we searched conference proceedings and reference lists of relevant articles.Selection criteria: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) on adults and children undergoing elective general anaesthesia using the LMA, that compared early removal of the LMA (defined as removal of the LMA in the deep plane of anaesthesia) versus late removal of the LMA (defined as removal of the LMA after the patient is awake).Data collection and analysis: Two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. We contacted study authors for additional information. We used a random-effects model to generate forest plots from the data.Main results: We identified a total of 9188 citations and included 15 RCTs conducted on 2242 participants in this review. All trials used the LMA Classic in American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I or II for patients undergoing elective general anaesthesia. Children were enrolled in 11 trials and adults in five trials. None of the trials were of high methodological quality. Eight of the 15 studies had adequate generation of random sequence, whereas only one trial had adequate concealment of random sequence. Three trials had blinded the outcome assessor. Thus, the majority of the studies appeared to have a high risk of bias in the study design.Using the GRADE approach, we found low quality evidence that the risk of laryngospasm was similar with early removal of the LMA (3.3%) versus late removal (2.7%): risk ratio (RR) 1.23, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.74 to 2.03; 11 trials, 1615 participants. The quality of evidence was very low that the risk of coughing was less after early removal (13.9%) than late removal (19.4%): RR 0.52, 95% CI 0.29 to 0.94; 11 trials, 1430 participants. The quality of evidence for the risk of desaturation was also very low; there was no difference between early removal (7.9%) and late removal (10.1%): RR 0.68, 95% CI 0.4 to 1.16; 13 trials, 2037 participants. We found low quality evidence that the risk of airway obstruction was higher with early removal (15.6%) compared to late removal of the LMA (4.6%): RR 2.69, 95% CI 1.32 to 5.5; eight trials, 1313 participants.Authors' conclusions: This systematic review suggests that current best evidence comparing early versus late removal of the LMA in participants undergoing general anaesthesia does not demonstrate superiority of either intervention. However, the quality of evidence available is either low or very low. There is a paucity of well designed RCTs and a need for large scale RCTs to demonstrate whether early removal or late removal of the LMA is better after general anaesthesia.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD007082.pub2/abstract


Record #30 of 54
ID: CD003216
AU: Langer Gero
AU: Fink Astrid
TI: Nutritional interventions for preventing and treating pressure ulcers
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 6
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Dietary Supplements;Enteral Nutrition;Parenteral Nutrition;Pressure Ulcer [prevention & control] [therapy];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Wound Healing;Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: WOUNDS
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003216.pub2
AB: Background: Pressure ulcers affect approximately 10% of people in hospitals and older people are at highest risk. A correlation between inadequate nutritional intake and the development of pressure ulcers has been suggested by several studies, but the results have been inconsistent.Objectives: To evaluate the effects of enteral and parenteral nutrition on the prevention and treatment of pressure ulcers.Search methods: In March 2014, for this first update, we searched The Cochrane Wounds Group Specialised Trials Register, the Cochrane Central register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library), the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE) (The Cochrane Library), the Health Technology Assessment Database (HTA) (The Cochrane Library), the Cochrane Methodology Register (The Cochrane Library), NHS Economic Evaluation Database (The Cochrane Library), Ovid Medline, Ovid Embase and EBSCO CINAHL. No date, language or publication status limits were applied.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the effects of enteral or parenteral nutrition on the prevention and treatment of pressure ulcers, which measured the incidence of new ulcers, ulcer healing or changes in pressure ulcer severity. There were no restrictions on types of patient, setting, date, publication status or language.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently screened for inclusion, and disagreement was resolved by discussion. Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed quality using the Cochrane Collaboration tool for assessing risk of bias.Main results: We included 23 RCTs, many were small (between 9 and 4023 participants, median 88) and at high risk of bias.Eleven trials compared a combination of nutritional supplements, consisting of a minimum of energy and protein in different dosages, for the prevention of pressure ulcers. A meta-analysis of eight trials (6062 participants) that compared the effects of mixed nutritional supplements with standard hospital diet found no clear evidence of an effect of supplementation on pressure ulcer development (pooled RR 0.86; 95% CI 0.73 to 1.00; P value 0.05; I2 = 13%, random effects). This outcome is at unclear or high risk of bias.Fourteen trials evaluated the effects of nutritional supplements on the healing of existing pressure ulcers: seven trials examined mixed nutritional supplements, three the effects of proteins, two trials examined zinc, and two studies examined ascorbic acid. The included trials were heterogeneous with regard to participants, interventions, comparisons and outcomes and meta-analysis was not appropriate. There was no clear evidence of an improvement in pressure ulcer healing from the nutritional supplements evaluated in any of these individual studies.Authors' conclusions: There is currently no clear evidence of a benefit associated with nutritional interventions for either the prevention or treatment of pressure ulcers. Further trials of high methodological quality are necessary.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD003216.pub2/abstract


Record #31 of 54
ID: CD012194
AU: Kononowicz Andrzej A
AU: Woodham Luke
AU: Georg Carina
AU: Edelbring Samuel
AU: Stathakarou Natalia
AU: Davies David
AU: Masiello Italo
AU: Saxena Nakul
AU: Tudor Car Lorainne
AU: Car Josip
AU: Zary Nabil
TI: Virtual patient simulations for health professional education
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2016
NO: 5
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
CC: TOBACCO
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD012194
AB: This is the protocol for a review and there is no abstract. The objectives are as follows:The objective of this review is to evaluate the effectiveness of virtual patient simulation as an educational intervention versus traditional learning, other types of e-Learning interventions and other forms of virtual patient simulation interventions for delivering pre-registration and post-registration healthcare professional education. We will primarily assess the impact of these interventions on learners? knowledge, skills and attitudes. Our secondary objective is to assess the cost-effectiveness of these interventions.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD012194/abstract


Record #32 of 54
ID: CD006239
AU: Amos Taryn
AU: Stein Dan J
AU: Ipser Jonathan C
TI: Pharmacological interventions for preventing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Adrenergic beta-1 Receptor Antagonists [therapeutic use];Amines [therapeutic use];Anti-Anxiety Agents [therapeutic use];Anti-Inflammatory Agents [therapeutic use];Antidepressive Agents, Second-Generation [therapeutic use];Citalopram [therapeutic use];Cyclohexanecarboxylic Acids [therapeutic use];Hydrocortisone [therapeutic use];Propranolol [therapeutic use];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Stress Disorders, Post-Traumatic [prevention & control];Temazepam [therapeutic use];gamma-Aminobutyric Acid [therapeutic use];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
CC: DEPRESSN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006239.pub2
AB: Background: Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating disorder which, after a sufficient delay, may be diagnosed amongst individuals who respond with intense fear, helplessness or horror to traumatic events. There is some evidence that the use of pharmacological interventions immediately after exposure to trauma may reduce the risk of developing of PTSD.Objectives: To assess the effects of pharmacological interventions for the prevention of PTSD in adults following exposure to a traumatic event.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Depression, Anxiety and Neurosis Controlled Trials Register (CCDANCTR-Studies and CCDANCTR-References) (to 14 February 2014). This register contains relevant reports of randomised controlled trials from the following bibliographic databases: CENTRAL (all years); EMBASE (1974 to date); MEDLINE (1950 to date) and PsycINFO (1967 to date). We identified unpublished trials by searching the National Institute of Health (NIH) Reporter, the metaRegister of Controlled Trials database (mRCT) and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (to December 2013). We scanned the reference lists of articles for additional studies. We placed no constraints on language and setting.Selection criteria: We restricted studies to randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of pharmacological interventions compared with placebo for the prevention of PTSD in adults.Data collection and analysis: Two authors (TA and JI) independently assessed trials for eligibility and inclusion based on the review selection criteria. We independently extracted sample, methodological, outcome and 'Risk of bias' data, as well as the number of side effects, from each trial and entered these into a customised data extraction form. We contacted investigators for missing information. We calculated summary statistics for continuous and dichotomous variables (if provided). We did not undertake subgroup analyses due to the small number of included studies.Main results: We included nine short-term RCTs (duration 12 weeks or less) in the analysis (345 participants; age range 18 to 76 years). Participants were exposed to a variety of traumas, ranging from assault, traffic accidents and work accidents to cardiac surgery and septic shock. Seven studies were conducted at single centres. The seven RCTs included four hydrocortisone studies, three propranolol studies (of which one study had a third arm investigating gabapentin), and single trials of escitalopram and temazepam. Outcome assessment measures included the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS), the 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) and the Center for Epidemiological Studies ? Depression Scale (CES-D).In four trials with 165 participants there was moderate quality evidence for the efficacy of hydrocortisone in preventing the onset of PTSD (risk ratio (RR) 0.17; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.05 to 0.56; P value = 0.004), indicating that between seven and 13 patients would need to be treated with this agent in order to prevent the onset of PTSD in one patient. There was low quality evidence for preventing the onset of PTSD in three trials with 118 participants treated with propranolol (RR 0.62; 95% CI 0.24 to 1.59; P value = 0.32). Drop-outs due to treatment-emergent side effects, where reported, were low for all of the agents tested. Three of the four RCTs of hydrocortisone reported that medication was more effective than placebo in reducing PTSD symptoms after a median of 4.5 months after the event. None of the single trials of escitalopram, temazepam and gabapentin demonstrated evidence that medication was superior to placebo in preventing the onset of PTSD.Seven of the included RCTs were at a high risk of bias. Differential drop-outs between groups undermined the results of three studies, while one study failed to describe how the allocation of medication was concealed. Other forms of bias that might have influenced study results included possible confounding through group differences in concurrent medication and termination of the study based on treatment response.Authors' conclusions: There is moderate quality evidence for the efficacy of hydrocortisone for the prevention of PTSD development in adults. We found no evidence to support the efficacy of propranolol, escitalopram, temazepam and gabapentin in preventing PTSD onset. The findings, however, are based on a few small studies with multiple limitations. Further research is necessary in order to determine the efficacy of pharmacotherapy in preventing PTSD and to identify potential moderators of treatment effect.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD006239.pub2/abstract


Record #33 of 54
ID: CD007649
AU: Ruiz Garcia Vicente
AU: Jobanputra Paresh
AU: Burls Amanda
AU: Cabello Juan B
AU: Vela Casasempere Paloma
AU: Bort-Marti Sylvia
AU: Kynaston-Pearson Francis JB
TI: Certolizumab pegol (CDP870) for rheumatoid arthritis in adults
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 9
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized;Antirheumatic Agents [therapeutic use];Arthritis, Rheumatoid [drug therapy];Immunoglobulin Fab Fragments [therapeutic use];Methotrexate [therapeutic use];Polyethylene Glycols [therapeutic use];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: MUSKEL
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007649.pub3
AB: Background: Tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha inhibitors are beneficial for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in terms of reducing the risk of joint damage, improving physical function and improving quality of life. This Cochrane review is an update of a review of the treatment of RA with certolizumab pegol that was first published in 2011.Objectives: To assess the clinical benefits and harms of certolizumab pegol (CDP870) in patients with RA who have not responded well to conventional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs).Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library 2014, Issue 5), MEDLINE, EMBASE, Scopus, TOXLINE, Web of Knowledge; websites of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA); reference lists of articles; and searched http/clinicaltrials.gov. The searches were updated from 2009 (date of last search for the original review) to 5 June 2014.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials that compared certolizumab pegol with any other agent including placebo or methotrexate (MTX) in adult patients with active RA despite current or prior treatment with conventional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), such as MTX.Data collection and analysis: Two authors independently assessed search results, trial quality and extracted data. Disagreements were resolved by discussion or referral to a third author.Main results: Eleven trials were included in this update. Ten (4324 patients) were included in the pooled analysis for benefits, five more than previously, and 10 (3711 patients) in the pooled analysis for harms, four more trials (1930 patients) than previously. The duration of follow-up varied from 12 to 52 weeks and the range of doses of certolizumab pegol varied from 50 to 400 mg given subcutaneously (sc). In phase III trials, the control was placebo plus MTX in five trials and placebo in four trials. The risk of bias of the included studies was assessed as low but there may have been a risk of attrition bias.Statistically significant improvements were observed at 24 weeks with the approved dose of 200 mg certolizumab pegol every other week, in 1) American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 50% improvement: 27% absolute improvement (95% CI 20% to 33%), NNT of 4 (95% CI 3 to 8), risk ratio (RR) 3.80 (95% CI 2.42 to 5.95); 2) the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ): -12% absolute improvement (95% CI -9% to -14%), NNT of 6 (95% CI 5 to 8), mean difference (MD) - 0.35 (95% CI -0.43 to -0.26) (scale 0 to 3); 3) Disease Activity Score (DAS) remission improvement: absolute improvement 11% (95% CI 8% to 15%), NNT of 9 (95% CI 4 to 20), RR 8.47 (95% CI 4.15-17.28); and 4) radiological changes: erosion score (ES) absolute improvement -0.29% (95% CI -0.42% to -0.17%), NNT of 6 (95% CI 4 to 10), MD -0.67 (95% CI -0.96 to -0.38) (scale 0 to 230). Serious adverse events were statistically significantly more frequent for certolizumab pegol (200 mg every other week) with an absolute rate difference of 4% (95% CI 2% to 6%), NNTH of 32 (95% CI 17 to 88), Peto odds ratio (OR) 1.77 (95% CI 1.27 to 2.46). There was a statistically significant increase in all withdrawals in the placebo groups (for all doses and all follow-ups) with an absolute rate difference of -34% (95% CI -18% to -50%), NNTH of 4 (95% CI 3 to 5), NNTH of 4 (95% CI 3 to 5), RR 0.42 (95% CI 0.36 to 0.50); and there was a statistically significant increase in all withdrawals due to adverse events in the certolizumab groups (for all doses and all follow-up) with an absolute rate difference of 2% (95% CI 1% to 3%), NNTH of 55 (95% CI 27 to 238), Peto OR 1.66 (95% CI 1.15 to 2.37).The risk of bias was low and the quality of evidence was downgraded to moderate because of high rates of dropouts (> 20%) in most of the trials. We did not find any problems with inconsistency, indirectness, imprecision or publication bias.Authors' conclusions: The results and conclusions did not change from the previous review. There is moderate-level evidence from randomised controlled trials that certolizumab pegol alone or combined with methotrexate is beneficial in the treatment of RA. Adverse events were more frequent with active treatment. We found a potential risk of serious adverse events.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD007649.pub3/abstract


Record #34 of 54
ID: CD005530
AU: Bar-On Edna S
AU: Goldberg Elad
AU: Hellmann Sarah
AU: Leibovici Leonard
TI: Combined DTP-HBV-HIB vaccine versus separately administered DTP-HBV and HIB vaccines for primary prevention of diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B and Haemophilus influenzae B (HIB)
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2012
NO: 4
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Diphtheria [immunology] [prevention & control];Diphtheria-Tetanus-Pertussis Vaccine [administration & dosage] [immunology];Haemophilus Infections [immunology] [prevention & control];Haemophilus Vaccines [administration & dosage] [immunology];Hepatitis B [immunology] [prevention & control];Hepatitis B Vaccines [administration & dosage] [immunology];Tetanus [immunology] [prevention & control];Vaccines, Combined [administration & dosage] [immunology];Whooping Cough [immunology] [prevention & control];Child, Preschool[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Infant[checkword];Infant, Newborn[checkword]
CC: ARI
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005530.pub3
AB: Background: Advantages to combining childhood vaccines include reducing the number of visits, injections and patient discomfort, increasing compliance and optimising prevention. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that routine infant immunisation programmes include a vaccination against Haemophilus influenzae (H. influenzae) type B (HIB) in the combined diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP)-hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccination. The effectiveness and safety of the combined vaccine should be carefully and systematically assessed to ensure its acceptability by the community.Objectives: To compare the effectiveness of combined DTP-HBV-HIB vaccines versus combined DTP-HBV and separate HIB vaccinations.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2011, Issue 4), which contains the Cochrane Acute Respiratory Infections Group's Specialised Register, MEDLINE (January 1966 to week 1, November 2011), EMBASE (January 1990 to November 2011) and www.clinicaltrials.gov (up to April 2011).Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi-RCTs comparing vaccination with any combined DTP-HBV-HIB vaccine, with or without three types of inactivated polio virus (IPV) or concomitant oral polio vaccine (OPV) in any dose, preparation or time schedule, compared with separate vaccines or placebo, administered to infants up to two years old.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently inspected references identified by the searches and evaluated them against the inclusion criteria, extracted data and assessed the methodological quality of included trials.Main results: Data for the primary outcome (prevention of disease) were lacking. We performed a meta-analysis to pool the results of 20 studies with 5874 participants in an immunogenicity analysis and 5232 participants in the reactogenicity analysis. There were no data on clinical outcomes for the primary outcome (prevention of disease) and all studies used immunogenicity and reactogenicity (adverse events). The number of vaccine doses differed significantly between the studies. Heterogeneous interventions, study location, healthcare environment and combining research across disparate geographical locations, may have lead to bias. The risk of bias was unclear across most of the included studies. Comparisons found little heterogeneity. In two immunological responses the combined vaccine achieved lower responses than the separate vaccines for HIB and tetanus. No significant differences in immunogenicity were found for pertussis, diphtheria, polio and hepatitis B. Serious adverse events were comparable with mainly hospitalisation and acute bronchiolitis cases. Minor adverse events such as pain and redness were more common in children given the combined vaccine. Overall, the direction shown by the results is in favour of the DTPw (diptheria-tetanus-whole cell pertussis)-HBV-HIB vaccine rather than the DTPa (diptheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis)-HBV-HIB vaccine when compared to the separate vaccines (size of effect: risk ratio (RR) 1.43; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.98 to 2.10, for 5269 participants).Authors' conclusions: We could not conclude that the immune responses elicited by the combined vaccine were different from or equivalent to the separate vaccines. There was significantly less immunological response for HIB and tetanus and more local reactions in the combined injections. However, these differences rely mostly on one study each. Studies did not use an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis and we were uncertain about the risk of bias in many of the studies. These results are therefore inconclusive. Studies addressing clinical end points whenever possible, using correct methodology and a large enough sample size should be conducted.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD005530.pub3/abstract


Record #35 of 54
ID: CD009928
AU: Välimäki Maritta
AU: Hätönen Heli M
AU: Lahti Mari E
AU: Kurki Marjo
AU: Hottinen Anja
AU: Metsäranta Kiki
AU: Riihimäki Tanja
AU: Adams Clive E
TI: Virtual reality for treatment compliance for people with serious mental illness
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 10
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Patient Compliance;User-Computer Interface;Mental Disorders [therapy];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Schizophrenia [therapy];Schizophrenic Psychology;Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: SCHIZ
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009928.pub2
AB: Background: Virtual reality (VR) is computerised real-time technology, which can be used an alternative assessment and treatment tool in the mental health field. Virtual reality may take different forms to simulate real-life activities and support treatment.Objectives: To investigate the effects of virtual reality to support treatment compliance in people with serious mental illness.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (most recent, 17th September 2013) and relevant reference lists.Selection criteria: All relevant randomised studies comparing virtual reality with standard care for those with serious mental illnesses. We defined virtual reality as a computerised real-time technology using graphics, sound and other sensory input, which creates the interactive computer-mediated world as a therapeutic tool.Data collection and analysis: All review authors independently selected studies and extracted data. For homogeneous dichotomous data the risk difference (RD) and the 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated on an intention-to-treat basis. For continuous data, we calculated mean differences (MD). We assessed risk of bias and created a 'Summary of findings' table using the GRADE approach.Main results: We identified three short-term trials (total of 156 participants, duration five to 12 weeks). Outcomes were prone to at least a moderate risk of overestimating positive effects. We found that virtual reality had little effects regarding compliance (3 RCTs, n = 156, RD loss to follow-up 0.02 CI -0.08 to 0.12, low quality evidence), cognitive functioning (1 RCT, n = 27, MD average score on Cognistat 4.67 CI -1.76 to 11.10, low quality evidence), social skills (1 RCT, n = 64, MD average score on social problem solving SPSI-R (Social Problem Solving Inventory - Revised) -2.30 CI -8.13 to 3.53, low quality evidence), or acceptability of intervention (2 RCTs, n = 92, RD 0.05 CI -0.09 to 0.19, low quality evidence). There were no data reported on mental state, insight, behaviour, quality of life, costs, service utilisation, or adverse effects. Satisfaction with treatment - measured using an un-referenced scale - and reported as "interest in training" was better for the virtual reality group (1 RCT, n = 64, MD 6.00 CI 1.39 to 10.61,low quality evidence).Authors' conclusions: There is no clear good quality evidence for or against using virtual reality for treatment compliance among people with serious mental illness. If virtual reality is used, the experimental nature of the intervention should be clearly explained. High-quality studies should be undertaken in this area to explore any effects of this novel intervention and variations of approach.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD009928.pub2/abstract


Record #36 of 54
ID: CD008785
AU: Fletcher-Watson Sue
AU: McConnell Fiona
AU: Manola Eirini
AU: McConachie Helen
TI: Interventions based on the Theory of Mind cognitive model for autism spectrum disorder (ASD)
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 3
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Theory of Mind;Child Development Disorders, Pervasive [psychology] [therapy];Emotions;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Humans[checkword]
CC: BEHAV
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008785.pub2
AB: Background: The 'Theory of Mind' (ToM) model suggests that people with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have a profound difficulty understanding the minds of other people - their emotions, feelings, beliefs, and thoughts. As an explanation for some of the characteristic social and communication behaviours of people with ASD, this model has had a significant influence on research and practice. It implies that successful interventions to teach ToM could, in turn, have far-reaching effects on behaviours and outcome.Objectives: To review the efficacy of interventions based on the ToM model for individuals with ASD.Search methods: In August 2013 we searched CENTRAL, Ovid MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, PsycINFO, ERIC, Social Services Abstracts, AutismData, and two trials registers. We also searched the reference lists of relevant papers, contacted authors who work in this field, and handsearched a number of journals.Selection criteria: Review studies were selected on the basis that they reported on an applicable intervention (linked to ToM in one of four clearly-defined ways), presented new randomised controlled trial data, and participants had a confirmed diagnosis of an autism spectrum disorder. Studies were selected by two review authors independently and a third author arbitrated when necessary.Data collection and analysis: Risk of bias was evaluated and data were extracted by two review authors independently; a third author arbitrated when necessary. Most studies were not eligible for meta-analysis, the principal reason being mis-matching methodologies and outcome measures. Three small meta-analyses were carried out.Main results: Twenty-two randomised trials were included in the review (N = 695). Studies were highly variable in their country of origin, sample size, participant age, intervention delivery type, and outcome measures. Risk of bias was variable across categories. There were very few studies for which there was adequate blinding of participants and personnel, and some were also judged at high risk of bias in blinding of outcome assessors. There was also evidence of some bias in sequence generation and allocation concealment. Not all studies reported data that fell within the pre-defined primary outcome categories for the review, instead many studies reported measures which were intervention-specific (e.g. emotion recognition). The wide range of measures used within each outcome category and the mixed results from these measures introduced further complexity when interpreting results.Studies were grouped into four main categories according to intervention target/primary outcome measure. These were: emotion recognition studies, joint attention and social communication studies, imitation studies, and studies teaching ToM itself. Within the first two of these categories, a sub-set of studies were deemed suitable for meta-analysis for a limited number of key outcomes.There was very low quality evidence of a positive effect on measures of communication based on individual results from three studies. There was low quality evidence from 11 studies reporting mixed results of interventions on measures of social interaction, very low quality evidence from four studies reporting mixed results on measures of general communication, and very low quality evidence from four studies reporting mixed results on measures of ToM ability.  The meta-analysis results we were able to generate showed that interventions targeting emotion recognition across age groups and working with people within the average range of intellectual ability had a positive effect on the target skill, measured by a test using photographs of faces (mean increase of 0.75 points, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.22 to 1.29 points, Z = 2.75, P < 0.006, four studies, N = 105). Therapist-led joint attention interventions can promote production of more joint attention behaviours within adult-child interaction (mean increase of 0.55 points, 95% CI 0.11 to 0.99 points, Z = 2.45, P value = 0.01, two studies, N = 88). Further analysis undermines this conclusion somewhat by demonstrating that there was no clear evidence that intervention can have an effect on joint attention initiations as measured using a standardised assessment tool (mean increase of 0.23 points, 95% CI -0.48 to 0.94 points, Z = 0.63, P value = 0.53, three studies, N = 92). No adverse effects were apparent.Authors' conclusions: While there is some evidence that ToM, or a precursor skill, can be taught to people with ASD, there is little evidence of maintenance of that skill, generalisation to other settings, or developmental effects on related skills. Furthermore, inconsistency in findings and measurement means that evidence has been graded of 'very low' or 'low' quality and we cannot be confident that suggestions of positive effects will be sustained as high-quality evidence accumulates. Further longitudinal designs and larger samples are needed to help elucidate both the efficacy of ToM-linked interventions and the explanatory value of the ToM model itself. It is possible that the continuing refinement of the ToM model will lead to better interventions which have a greater impact on development than those investigated to date.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD008785.pub2/abstract


Record #37 of 54
ID: CD007854
AU: Smith Caroline A
AU: Armour Mike
AU: Zhu Xiaoshu
AU: Li Xun
AU: Lu Zhi Yong
AU: Song Jing
TI: Acupuncture for dysmenorrhoea
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2016
NO: 4
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Acupuncture Therapy [adverse effects] [methods];Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal [therapeutic use];Dysmenorrhea [drug therapy] [therapy];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
CC: MENSTR
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007854.pub3
AB: Background: Primary dysmenorrhoea is the most common form of period pain and affects up to three-quarters of women at some stage of their reproductive life. Primary dysmenorrhoea is pain in the absence of any organic cause and is characterised by cramping pain in the lower abdomen, starting within the first eight to 72 hours of menstruation.This review examines the currently available evidence supporting the use of acupuncture (stimulation of points on the body using needles) and acupressure (stimulation of points on the body using pressure) to treat primary dysmenorrhoea.Objectives: To determine the effectiveness and safety of acupuncture and acupressure in the treatment of primary dysmenorrhoea when compared with a placebo, no treatment, or conventional medical treatment.Search methods: We searched the following databases: the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group Trials Register (to September 2015), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (the Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL and Chinese databases including Chinese Biomedical Literature Database (CBM), China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), VIP database and registers of ongoing trials.Selection criteria: We included all published and unpublished randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing acupuncture with sham acupuncture or placebo control, usual care, pharmacological treatment or no treatment. We included the following modes of treatment: acupuncture, electro-acupuncture, and acupressure. Participants were women of reproductive age with primary dysmenorrhoea during the majority of the menstrual cycles or for three consecutive menstrual cycles, and moderate to severe symptoms.Data collection and analysis: We calculated odds ratios (ORs) for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences (MDs) or standardised mean differences (SMDs) for continuous outcomes, with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We pooled the data where appropriate. Our primary outcomes was pain. Secondary outcomes included menstrual symptoms, quality of life, and adverse effects.Main results: We included 42 RCTs (4640 women). Acupuncture or acupressure was compared with a sham/placebo group, medication, no treatment or other treatment. Many of the continuous data were not suitable for calculation of means, mainly due to evidence of skew.1. Acupuncture studies Acupuncture versus sham or placebo control (6 RCTs)Findings were inconsistent and inconclusive. However, the only study in the review that was at low risk of bias in all domains found no evidence of a difference between the groups at three, six or 12 months. The overall quality of the evidence was low. No studies reported adverse events. Acupuncture versus NSAIDsSeven studies reported visual analogue scale (VAS) pain scores, but were unsuitable for pooling due to extreme heterogeneity (I² = 94%). In all studies the scores were lower in the acupuncture group, with the mean difference varying across studies from 0.64 to 4 points on a VAS 0 - 10 scale (low-quality evidence). Four RCTs reported rates of pain relief, and found a benefit for the acupuncture group (OR 4.99, 95% CI 2.82 to 8.82, 352 women, I² = 0%, low-quality evidence). Adverse events were less common in the acupuncture group (OR 0.10, 95% CI 0.02 to 0.44, 4 RCTs, 239 women, 4 trials, I² = 15%, low-quality evidence). Acupuncture versus no treatmentData were unsuitable for analysis, but pain scores were lower in the acupuncture group in all six studies reporting this outcome. The quality of the evidence was low. No studies reported adverse events.2. Acupressure studiesNo studies of acupressure reported adverse events. Acupressure versus sham or placebo controlData were unsuitable for pooling, but two studies reported a mean benefit of one to three points on a 0 - 10 VAS pain scale. Another four studies reported data unsuitable for analysis: all found that pain scores were lower in the acupuncture group. No studies reported adverse events. The quality of the evidence was low. Acupressure versus NSAIDsOne study reported this outcome, using a 0 - 3 pain scale. The score was higher (indicating more pain) in the acupressure group (MD 0.39 points, 95% CI 0.21 to 0.57, 136 women, very low-quality evidence). Acupressure versus no treatmentThere was no clear evidence of a difference between the groups on a VAS 0 - 10 pain scale (MD -0.96 points, 95% CI -2.54 to 0.62, 2 trials, 140 women, I² = 83%, very low-quality evidence).Authors' conclusions: There is insufficient evidence to demonstrate whether or not acupuncture or acupressure are effective in treating primary dysmenorrhoea, and for most comparisons no data were available on adverse events. The quality of the evidence was low or very low for all comparisons. The main limitations were risk of bias, poor reporting, inconsistency and risk of publication bias.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD007854.pub3/abstract


Record #38 of 54
ID: CD001920
AU: Pollock Alex
AU: Baer Gillian
AU: Campbell Pauline
AU: Choo Pei Ling
AU: Forster Anne
AU: Morris Jacqui
AU: Pomeroy Valerie M
AU: Langhorne Peter
TI: Physical rehabilitation approaches for the recovery of function and mobility following stroke
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 4
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Posture;Activities of Daily Living;Biofeedback, Psychology [methods];Leg [physiology];Motor Skills;Physical Therapy Modalities;Proprioception [physiology];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Recovery of Function;Stroke [rehabilitation];Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: STROKE
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001920.pub3
AB: Background: Various approaches to physical rehabilitation may be used after stroke, and considerable controversy and debate surround the effectiveness of relative approaches. Some physiotherapists base their treatments on a single approach; others use a mixture of components from several different approaches.Objectives: To determine whether physical rehabilitation approaches are effective in recovery of function and mobility in people with stroke, and to assess if any one physical rehabilitation approach is more effective than any other approach.For the previous versions of this review, the objective was to explore the effect of 'physiotherapy treatment approaches' based on historical classifications of orthopaedic, neurophysiological or motor learning principles, or on a mixture of these treatment principles. For this update of the review, the objective was to explore the effects of approaches that incorporate individual treatment components, categorised as functional task training, musculoskeletal intervention (active), musculoskeletal intervention (passive), neurophysiological intervention, cardiopulmonary intervention, assistive device or modality.In addition, we sought to explore the impact of time after stroke, geographical location of the study, dose of the intervention, provider of the intervention and treatment components included within an intervention.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (last searched December 2012), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library Issue 12, 2012), MEDLINE (1966 to December 2012), EMBASE (1980 to December 2012), AMED (1985 to December 2012) and CINAHL (1982 to December 2012). We searched reference lists and contacted experts and researchers who have an interest in stroke rehabilitation.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of physical rehabilitation approaches aimed at promoting the recovery of function or mobility in adult participants with a clinical diagnosis of stroke. Outcomes included measures of independence in activities of daily living (ADL), motor function, balance, gait velocity and length of stay. We included trials comparing physical rehabilitation approaches versus no treatment, usual care or attention control and those comparing different physical rehabilitation approaches.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently categorised identified trials according to the selection criteria, documented their methodological quality and extracted the data.Main results: We included a total of 96 studies (10,401 participants) in this review. More than half of the studies (50/96) were carried out in China. Generally the studies were heterogeneous, and many were poorly reported.Physical rehabilitation was found to have a beneficial effect, as compared with no treatment, on functional recovery after stroke (27 studies, 3423 participants; standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.78, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.58 to 0.97, for Independence in ADL scales), and this effect was noted to persist beyond the length of the intervention period (nine studies, 540 participants; SMD 0.58, 95% CI 0.11 to 1.04). Subgroup analysis revealed a significant difference based on dose of intervention (P value < 0.0001, for independence in ADL), indicating that a dose of 30 to 60 minutes per day delivered five to seven days per week is effective. This evidence principally arises from studies carried out in China. Subgroup analyses also suggest significant benefit associated with a shorter time since stroke (P value 0.003, for independence in ADL).We found physical rehabilitation to be more effective than usual care or attention control in improving motor function (12 studies, 887 participants; SMD 0.37, 95% CI 0.20 to 0.55), balance (five studies, 246 participants; SMD 0.31, 95% CI 0.05 to 0.56) and gait velocity (14 studies, 1126 participants; SMD 0.46, 95% CI 0.32 to 0.60). Subgroup analysis demonstrated a significant difference based on dose of intervention (P value 0.02 for motor function), indicating that a dose of 30 to 60 minutes delivered five to seven days a week provides significant benefit. Subgroup analyses also suggest significant benefit associated with a shorter time since stroke (P value 0.05, for independence in ADL).No one physical rehabilitation approach was more (or less) effective than any other approach in improving independence in ADL (eight studies, 491 participants; test for subgroup differences: P value 0.71) or motor function (nine studies, 546 participants; test for subgroup differences: P value 0.41). These findings are supported by subgroup analyses carried out for comparisons of intervention versus no treatment or usual care, which identified no significant effects of different treatment components or categories of interventions.Authors' conclusions: Physical rehabilitation, comprising a selection of components from different approaches, is effective for recovery of function and mobility after stroke. Evidence related to dose of physical therapy is limited by substantial heterogeneity and does not support robust conclusions. No one approach to physical rehabilitation is any more (or less) effective in promoting recovery of function and mobility after stroke. Therefore, evidence indicates that physical rehabilitation should not be limited to compartmentalised, named approaches, but rather should comprise clearly defined, well-described, evidenced-based physical treatments, regardless of historical or philosophical origin.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD001920.pub3/abstract


Record #39 of 54
ID: CD004250
AU: Gross Anita
AU: Kay Theresa M
AU: Paquin Jean-Philippe
AU: Blanchette Samuel
AU: Lalonde Patrick
AU: Christie Trevor
AU: Dupont Genevieve
AU: Graham Nadine
AU: Burnie Stephen J
AU: Gelley Geoff
AU: Goldsmith Charles H
AU: Forget Mario
AU: Hoving Jan L
AU: Brønfort Gert
AU: Santaguida Pasqualina L
TI: Exercises for mechanical neck disorders
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 1
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Physical Therapy Modalities;Acute Pain [therapy];Chronic Pain [therapy];Manipulation, Chiropractic [methods];Neck;Neck Pain [etiology] [therapy];Pain Management [methods];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
CC: BACK
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004250.pub5
AB: Background: Neck pain is common, disabling and costly. Exercise is one treatment approach.Objectives: To assess the effectiveness of exercises to improve pain, disability, function, patient satisfaction, quality of life and global perceived effect in adults with neck pain.Search methods: We searched MEDLINE, MANTIS, ClinicalTrials.gov and three other computerized databases up to between January and May 2014 plus additional sources (reference checking, citation searching, contact with authors).Selection criteria: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing single therapeutic exercise with a control for adults suffering from neck pain with or without cervicogenic headache or radiculopathy.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently conducted trial selection, data extraction, 'Risk of bias' assessment and clinical relevance. The quality of the evidence was assessed using GRADE. Meta-analyses were performed for relative risk and standardized mean differences (SMD) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) after judging clinical and statistical heterogeneity.Main results: Twenty-seven trials (2485 analyzed /3005 randomized participants) met our inclusion criteria.For acute neck pain only, no evidence was found.For chronic neck pain, moderate quality evidence supports 1) cervico-scapulothoracic and upper extremity strength training to improve pain of a moderate to large amount immediately post treatment [pooled SMD (SMDp) -0.71 (95% CI: -1.33 to -0.10)] and at short-term follow-up; 2) scapulothoracic and upper extremity endurance training for slight beneficial effect on pain at immediate post treatment and short-term follow-up; 3) combined cervical, shoulder and scapulothoracic strengthening and stretching exercises varied from a small to large magnitude of beneficial effect on pain at immediate post treatment [SMDp -0.33 (95% CI: -0.55 to -0.10)] and up to long-term follow-up and a medium magnitude of effect improving function at both immediate post treatment and at short-term follow-up [SMDp -0.45 (95%CI: -0.72 to -0.18)]; 4) cervico-scapulothoracic strengthening/stabilization exercises to improve pain and function at intermediate term [SMDp -14.90 (95% CI:-22.40 to -7.39)]; 5) Mindfulness exercises (Qigong) minimally improved function but not global perceived effect at short term. Low evidence suggests 1) breathing exercises; 2) general fitness training; 3) stretching alone; and 4) feedback exercises combined with pattern synchronization may not change pain or function at immediate post treatment to short-term follow-up. Very low evidence suggests neuromuscular eye-neck co-ordination/proprioceptive exercises may improve pain and function at short-term follow-up.For chronic cervicogenic headache, moderate quality evidence supports static-dynamic cervico-scapulothoracic strengthening/endurance exercises including pressure biofeedback immediate post treatment and probably improves pain, function and global perceived effect at long-term follow-up. Low grade evidence supports sustained natural apophyseal glides (SNAG) exercises.For acute radiculopathy, low quality evidence suggests a small benefit for pain reduction at immediate post treatment with cervical stretch/strengthening/stabilization exercises.Authors' conclusions: No high quality evidence was found, indicating that there is still uncertainty about the effectiveness of exercise for neck pain. Using specific strengthening exercises as a part of routine practice for chronic neck pain, cervicogenic headache and radiculopathy may be beneficial. Research showed the use of strengthening and endurance exercises for the cervico-scapulothoracic and shoulder may be beneficial in reducing pain and improving function. However, when only stretching exercises were used no beneficial effects may be expected. Future research should explore optimal dosage.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD004250.pub5/abstract


Record #40 of 54
ID: CD010841
AU: Byrne Anthony L
AU: Bennett Michael H
AU: Pace Nathan Leon
AU: Thomas Paul
TI: Peripheral venous blood gas analysis versus arterial blood gas analysis for the diagnosis of respiratory failure and metabolic disturbance in adults
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2013
NO: 11
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
CC: ANAESTH
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010841
AB: This is the protocol for a review and there is no abstract. The objectives are as follows:The primary focus of this review is to determine the accuracy of peripheral venous blood gas (PVBG) analysis for diagnosing respiratory failure (RF) or metabolic disturbance (MD) of any type, as demonstrated by abnormalities in tissue pO2, pCO2, pH and HCO3.To assess the accuracy of PVBG analysis in diagnosing each specific type of RF or MD, particularly Type 2 RF as demonstrated by tissue hypercapnia. We will assess the accuracy of the PVBG analysis when used to diagnose Type 1 RF, Type 2 RF with hypoxia, acidosis, alkalosis, as well as respiratory dysfunction (as indicated by hypocapnia).
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD010841/abstract


Record #41 of 54
ID: CD010848
AU: Mosli Mahmoud
AU: Fahmy Marianne
AU: Garg Sushil K
AU: Feagan Sean G
AU: Baker Kenneth A
AU: Zou GY
AU: MacDonald John K
AU: Sandborn William J
AU: Chande Nilesh
TI: Biomarkers for assessing disease activity in inflammatory bowel disease
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2013
NO: 11
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
CC: IBD
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010848
AB: This is the protocol for a review and there is no abstract. The objectives are as follows:The primary objective is to determine the diagnostic accuracy of three commonly studied biomarkers (serum CRP, FC and SL) for assessing disease activity in patients with established IBD (i.e. UC or CD) presenting with symptoms suggestive of active disease.A secondary objective is to investigate sources of heterogeneity by disease type (i.e. UC or CD), disease severity (e.g. mild, moderate or severe disease), disease location (e.g. distal or proximal involvement) and age.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD010848/abstract


Record #42 of 54
ID: CD000990
AU: Lane Risha
AU: Ellis Brian
AU: Watson Lorna
AU: Leng Gillian C
TI: Exercise for intermittent claudication
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2014
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Exercise Therapy [methods];Intermittent Claudication [therapy];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Time Factors;Walking;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
CC: PVD
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD000990.pub3
AB: Background: Exercise programmes are a relatively inexpensive, low-risk option compared with other more invasive therapies for leg pain on walking (intermittent claudication (IC)). This is an update of a review first published in 1998.Objectives: The prime objective of this review was to determine whether an exercise programme in people with intermittent claudication was effective in alleviating symptoms and increasing walking treadmill distances and walking times. Secondary objectives were to determine whether exercise was effective in preventing deterioration of underlying disease, reducing cardiovascular events and improving quality of life.Search methods: For this update the Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Group Trials Search Co-ordinator searched the Specialised Register (last searched September 2013) and CENTRAL (2013, Issue 8).Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials of an exercise regimen versus control or versus medical therapy in people with IC due to peripheral arterial disease. Any exercise programme or regimen used in the treatment of intermittent claudication was included, such as walking, skipping and running. Inclusion of trials was not affected by the duration, frequency or intensity of the exercise programme. Outcome measures collected included treadmill walking distance (time to onset of pain or pain-free walking distance and maximum walking time or maximal walking distance), ankle brachial index (ABI), quality of life, morbidity or amputation; if none of these were reported the trial was not included in this review.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed trial quality.Main results: Eleven additional studies were included in this update making a total of 30 trials which met the inclusion criteria, involving a total of 1816 participants with stable leg pain. The follow-up period ranged from two weeks to two years. The types of exercise varied from strength training to polestriding and upper or lower limb exercises; generally supervised sessions were at least twice a week. Most trials used a treadmill walking test for one of the outcome measures. Quality of the included trials was moderate, mainly due to an absence of relevant information. The majority of trials were small with 20 to 49 participants. Twenty trials compared exercise with usual care or placebo, the remainder of the trials compared exercise to medication (pentoxifylline, iloprost, antiplatelet agents and vitamin E) or pneumatic calf compression; people with various medical conditions or other pre-existing limitations to their exercise capacity were generally excluded.Overall, when taking the first time point reported in each of the studies, exercise significantly improved maximal walking time when compared with usual care or placebo: mean difference (MD) 4.51 minutes (95% confidence interval (CI) 3.11 to 5.92) with an overall improvement in walking ability of approximately 50% to 200%. Walking distances were also significantly improved: pain-free walking distance MD 82.29 metres (95% CI 71.86 to 92.72) and maximum walking distance MD 108.99 metres (95% CI 38.20 to 179.78). Improvements were seen for up to two years, and subgroup analyses were performed at three, six and 12 months where possible. Exercise did not improve the ABI (MD 0.05, 95% CI 0.00 to 0.09). The effect of exercise, when compared with placebo or usual care, was inconclusive on mortality, amputation and peak exercise calf blood flow due to limited data. No data were given on non-fatal cardiovascular events.Quality of life measured using the Short Form (SF)-36 was reported at three and six months. At three months, physical function, vitality and role physical all significantly improved with exercise, however this was a limited finding as this measure was only reported in two trials. At six months five trials reported outcomes of a significantly improved physical summary score and mental summary score secondary to exercise. Only two trials reported improvements in other domains, physical function and general health.Evidence was generally limited for exercise compared with antiplatelet therapy, pentoxifylline, iloprost, vitamin E and pneumatic foot and calf compression due to small numbers of trials and participants.Authors' conclusions: Exercise programmes are of significant benefit compared with placebo or usual care in improving walking time and distance in people with leg pain from IC who were considered to be fit for exercise intervention.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD000990.pub3/abstract


Record #43 of 54
ID: CD011269
AU: Nussbaumer Barbara
AU: Kaminski-Hartenthaler Angela
AU: Forneris Catherine A
AU: Morgan Laura C
AU: Sonis Jeffrey H
AU: Gaynes Bradley N
AU: Greenblatt Amy
AU: Wipplinger Jörg
AU: Lux Linda J
AU: Winkler Dietmar
AU: Van Noord Megan G
AU: Hofmann Julia
AU: Gartlehner Gerald
TI: Light therapy for preventing seasonal affective disorder
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 11
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Incidence;Phototherapy [methods];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Seasonal Affective Disorder [epidemiology] [prevention & control];Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: DEPRESSN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011269.pub2
AB: Background: Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a seasonal pattern of recurrent major depressive episodes that most commonly occurs during autumn or winter and remits in spring. The prevalence of SAD ranges from 1.5% to 9%, depending on latitude. The predictable seasonal aspect of SAD provides a promising opportunity for prevention. This review - one of four reviews on efficacy and safety of interventions to prevent SAD - focuses on light therapy as a preventive intervention. Light therapy is a non-pharmacological treatment that exposes people to artificial light. Mode of delivery (e.g. visors, light boxes) and form of light (e.g. bright white light) vary.Objectives: To assess the efficacy and safety of light therapy (in comparison with no treatment, other types of light therapy, second-generation antidepressants, melatonin, agomelatine, psychological therapies, lifestyle interventions and negative ion generators) in preventing SAD and improving patient-centred outcomes among adults with a history of SAD.Search methods: A search of the Specialised Register of the Cochrane Depression, Anxiety and Neuorosis Review Group (CCDANCTR) included all years to 11 August 2015. The CCDANCTR contains reports of relevant randomised controlled trials derived from EMBASE (1974 to date), MEDLINE (1950 to date), PsycINFO (1967 to date) and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trails (CENTRAL). Furthermore, we searched the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Web of Knowledge, The Cochrane Library and the Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (AMED) (to 26 May 2014). We also conducted a grey literature search and handsearched the reference lists of all included studies and pertinent review articles.Selection criteria: For efficacy, we included randomised controlled trials on adults with a history of winter-type SAD who were free of symptoms at the beginning of the study. For adverse events, we also intended to include non-randomised studies. We intended to include studies that compared any type of light therapy (e.g. bright white light, administered by visors or light boxes, infrared light, dawn stimulation) versus no treatment/placebo, second-generation antidepressants (SGAs), psychological therapies, melatonin, agomelatine, lifestyle changes, negative ion generators or another of the aforementioned light therapies. We also planned to include studies that looked at light therapy in combination with any comparator intervention and compared this with the same comparator intervention as monotherapy.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors screened abstracts and full-text publications against the inclusion criteria. Two review authors independently abstracted data and assessed risk of bias of included studies.Main results: We identified 2986 citations after de-duplication of search results. We excluded 2895 records during title and abstract review. We assessed 91 full-text papers for inclusion in the review, but only one study providing data from 46 people met our eligibility criteria. The included randomised controlled trial (RCT) had methodological limitations. We rated it as having high risk of performance and detection bias because of lack of blinding, and as having high risk of attrition bias because study authors did not report reasons for dropouts and did not integrate data from dropouts into the analysis.The included RCT compared preventive use of bright white light (2500 lux via visors), infrared light (0.18 lux via visors) and no light treatment. Overall, both forms of preventive light therapy reduced the incidence of SAD numerically compared with no light therapy. In all, 43% (6/14) of participants in the bright light group developed SAD, as well as 33% (5/15) in the infrared light group and 67% (6/9) in the non-treatment group. Bright light therapy reduced the risk of SAD incidence by 36%; however, the 95% confidence interval (CI) was very broad and included both possible effect sizes in favour of bright light therapy and those in favour of no light therapy (risk ratio (RR) 0.64, 95% CI 0.30 to 1.38). Infrared light reduced the risk of SAD by 50% compared with no light therapy, but in this case also the CI was too broad to allow precise estimations of effect size (RR 0.50, 95% CI 0.21 to 1.17). Comparison of both forms of preventive light therapy versus each other yielded similar rates of incidence of depressive episodes in both groups (RR 1.29, 95% CI 0.50 to 3.28). The quality of evidence for all outcomes was very low. Reasons for downgrading evidence quality included high risk of bias of the included study, imprecision and other limitations, such as self rating of outcomes, lack of checking of compliance throughout the study duration and insufficient reporting of participant characteristics.Investigators provided no information on adverse events. We could find no studies that compared light therapy versus other interventions of interest such as SGA, psychological therapies, melatonin or agomelatine.Authors' conclusions: Evidence on light therapy as preventive treatment for patients with a history of SAD is limited. Methodological limitations and the small sample size of the only available study have precluded review author conclusions on effects of light therapy for SAD. Given that comparative evidence for light therapy versus other preventive options is limited, the decision for or against initiating preventive treatment of SAD and the treatment selected should be strongly based on patient preferences.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD011269.pub2/abstract


Record #44 of 54
ID: CD002280
AU: Marinho Valeria CC
AU: Worthington Helen V
AU: Walsh Tanya
AU: Chong Lee Yee
TI: Fluoride gels for preventing dental caries in children and adolescents
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 6
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Dental Caries [prevention & control];Fluorides, Topical [therapeutic use];Gels;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: ORAL
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002280.pub2
AB: Background: Topically applied fluoride gels have been widely used as a caries-preventive intervention in dental surgeries and school-based programmes for over three decades. This updates the Cochrane review of fluoride gels for preventing dental caries in children and adolescents that was first published in 2002.Objectives: The primary objective is to determine the effectiveness and safety of fluoride gels in preventing dental caries in the child and adolescent population.The secondary objectives are to examine whether the effect of fluoride gels is influenced by the following: initial level of caries severity; background exposure to fluoride in water (or salt), toothpastes, or reported fluoride sources other than the study option(s); mode of use (self applied under supervision or operator-applied), and whether there is a differential effect between the tray and toothbrush methods of application; frequency of use (times per year) or fluoride concentration (ppm F).Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Oral Health Group Trials Register (to 5 November 2014), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (Cochrane Library 2014, Issue 11), MEDLINE via OVID (1946 to 5 November 2014), EMBASE via OVID (1980 to 5 November 2014), CINAHL via EBSCO (1980 to 5 November 2014), LILACS and BBO via the BIREME Virtual Health Library (1980 to 5 November 2014), ProQuest Dissertations and Theses (1861 to 5 November 2014) and Web of Science Conference Proceedings (1945 to 5 November 2014). We undertook a search for ongoing trials on ClinicalTrials.gov and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform on 5 November 2014. We placed no restrictions on language or date of publication in the search of the electronic databases. We also searched reference lists of articles and contacted selected authors and manufacturers.Selection criteria: Randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials where blind outcome assessment was stated or indicated, comparing topically applied fluoride gel with placebo or no treatment in children up to 16 years. The frequency of application had to be at least once a year, and study duration at least one year. The main outcome was caries increment measured by the change in decayed, missing and filled tooth surfaces in both permanent and primary teeth (D(M)FS and d(e/m)fs).Data collection and analysis: At least two review authors independently performed study selection, data extraction and 'Risk of bias' assessment. We contacted study authors for additional information where required. The primary measure of effect was the prevented fraction (PF), that is, the difference in mean caries increments between the treatment and control groups expressed as a percentage of the mean increment in the control group. We performed random-effects meta-analyses where we could pool data. We examined potential sources of heterogeneity in random-effects metaregression analyses. We collected adverse effects information from the included trials.Main results: We included 28 trials (3 of which are new trials since the original review), involving 9140 children and adolescents. Most of these trials recruited participants from schools. Most of the studies (20) were at high risk of bias, with 8 at unclear risk of bias.Twenty-five trials (8479 participants) contributed data for meta-analysis on permanent tooth surfaces: the D(M)FS pooled prevented fraction (PF) estimate was 28% (95% confidence intervals (CI) 19% to 36%; P < 0.0001; with substantial heterogeneity (P < 0.0001; I2 = 82%); moderate quality evidence). Subgroup and metaregression analyses suggested no significant association between estimates of D(M)FS prevented fractions and the prespecified trial characteristics. However, the effect of fluoride gel varied according to the type of control group used, with D(M)FS PF on average being 17% (95% CI 3% to 31%; P = 0.018) higher in non-placebo-controlled trials (the reduction in caries was 38% (95% CI 24% to 52%; P < 0.0001, 2808 participants) for the 10 trials with no treatment as control group, and 21% (95% CI 15% to 28%; P < 0.0001, 5671 participants) for the 15 placebo-controlled trials. A funnel plot of the 25 trials in the D(M)FS PF meta-analysis indicated a relationship between prevented fraction and study precision, with an apparent lack of small studies with statistically significant large effects.The d(e/m)fs pooled prevented fraction estimate for the three trials (1254 participants) that contributed data for the meta-analysis on primary teeth surfaces was 20% (95% CI 1% to 38%; P = 0.04; with no heterogeneity (P = 0.54; I2 = 0%); low quality evidence).There was limited reporting of adverse events. Only two trials reported information on acute toxicity signs and symptoms during the application of the gel (risk difference 0.01, 95% CI -0.01 to 0.02; P = 0.36; with no heterogeneity (P = 36; I2 = 0%); 490 participants; very low quality evidence). None of the trials reported information on tooth staining, mucosal irritation or allergic reaction.Authors' conclusions: The conclusions of this updated review remain the same as those when it was first published. There is moderate quality evidence of a large caries-inhibiting effect of fluoride gel in the permanent dentition. Information concerning the caries-preventive effect of fluoride gel on the primary dentition, which also shows a large effect, is based on low quality evidence from only three placebo-controlled trials. There is little information on adverse effects or on acceptability of treatment. Future trials should include assessment of potential adverse effects.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD002280.pub2/abstract


Record #45 of 54
ID: CD007228
AU: Inglis Sally C
AU: Clark Robyn A
AU: Dierckx Riet
AU: Prieto-Merino David
AU: Cleland John GF
TI: Structured telephone support or non-invasive telemonitoring for patients with heart failure
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 10
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Telephone;Chronic Disease;Heart Failure [mortality] [therapy];Hospitalization [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Quality of Life;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Telemetry [methods];Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: VASC
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007228.pub3
AB: Background: Specialised disease management programmes for heart failure aim to improve care, clinical outcomes and/or reduce healthcare utilisation. Since the last version of this review in 2010, several new trials of structured telephone support and non-invasive home telemonitoring have been published which have raised questions about their effectiveness.Objectives: To review randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of structured telephone support or non-invasive home telemonitoring compared to standard practice for people with heart failure, in order to quantify the effects of these interventions over and above usual care.Search methods: We updated the searches of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE), Health Technology AsseFssment Database (HTA) on the Cochrane Library; MEDLINE (OVID), EMBASE (OVID), CINAHL (EBSCO), Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED), Conference Proceedings Citation Index- Science (CPCI-S) on Web of Science (Thomson Reuters), AMED, Proquest Theses and Dissertations, IEEE Xplore and TROVE in January 2015. We handsearched bibliographies of relevant studies and systematic reviews and abstract conference proceedings. We applied no language limits.Selection criteria: We included only peer-reviewed, published RCTs comparing structured telephone support or non-invasive home telemonitoring to usual care of people with chronic heart failure. The intervention or usual care could not include protocol-driven home visits or more intensive than usual (typically four to six weeks) clinic follow-up.Data collection and analysis: We present data as risk ratios (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Primary outcomes included all-cause mortality, all-cause and heart failure-related hospitalisations, which we analysed using a fixed-effect model. Other outcomes included length of stay, health-related quality of life, heart failure knowledge and self care, acceptability and cost; we described and tabulated these. We performed meta-regression to assess homogeneity (the null hypothesis) in each subgroup analysis and to see if the effect of the intervention varied according to some quantitative variable (such as year of publication or median age).Main results: We include 41 studies of either structured telephone support or non-invasive home telemonitoring for people with heart failure, of which 17 were new and 24 had been included in the previous Cochrane review. In the current review, 25 studies evaluated structured telephone support (eight new studies, plus one study previously included but classified as telemonitoring; total of 9332 participants), 18 evaluated telemonitoring (nine new studies; total of 3860 participants). Two of the included studies trialled both structured telephone support and telemonitoring compared to usual care, therefore 43 comparisons are evident.Non-invasive telemonitoring reduced all-cause mortality (RR 0.80, 95% CI 0.68 to 0.94; participants = 3740; studies = 17; I² = 24%, GRADE: moderate-quality evidence) and heart failure-related hospitalisations (RR 0.71, 95% CI 0.60 to 0.83; participants = 2148; studies = 8; I² = 20%, GRADE: moderate-quality evidence). Structured telephone support reduced all-cause mortality (RR 0.87, 95% CI 0.77 to 0.98; participants = 9222; studies = 22; I² = 0%, GRADE: moderate-quality evidence) and heart failure-related hospitalisations (RR 0.85, 95% CI 0.77 to 0.93; participants = 7030; studies = 16; I² = 27%, GRADE: moderate-quality evidence).Neither structured telephone support nor telemonitoring demonstrated effectiveness in reducing the risk of all-cause hospitalisations (structured telephone support: RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.00; participants = 7216; studies = 16; I² = 47%, GRADE: very low-quality evidence; non-invasive telemonitoring: RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.89 to 1.01; participants = 3332; studies = 13; I² = 71%, GRADE: very low-quality evidence).Seven structured telephone support studies reported length of stay, with one reporting a significant reduction in length of stay in hospital. Nine telemonitoring studies reported length of stay outcome, with one study reporting a significant reduction in the length of stay with the intervention. One telemonitoring study reported a large difference in the total number of hospitalisations for more than three days, but this was not an analysis of length of stay per hospitalisation. Nine of 11 structured telephone support studies and five of 11 telemonitoring studies reported significant improvements in health-related quality of life. Nine structured telephone support studies and six telemonitoring studies reported costs of the intervention or cost effectiveness. Three structured telephone support studies and one telemonitoring study reported a decrease in costs and two telemonitoring studies reported increases in cost, due both to the cost of the intervention and to increased medical management. Adherence was rated between 55.1% and 98.5% for those structured telephone support and telemonitoring studies which reported this outcome. Participant acceptance of the intervention was reported in the range of 76% to 97% for studies which evaluated this outcome. Seven of nine studies that measured these outcomes reported significant improvements in heart failure knowledge and self-care behaviours.Authors' conclusions: For people with heart failure, structured telephone support and non-invasive home telemonitoring reduce the risk of all-cause mortality and heart failure-related hospitalisations; these interventions also demonstrated improvements in health-related quality of life and heart failure knowledge and self-care behaviours. Studies also demonstrated participant satisfaction with the majority of the interventions which assessed this outcome.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD007228.pub3/abstract


Record #46 of 54
ID: CD002284
AU: Marinho Valeria CC
AU: Chong Lee Yee
AU: Worthington Helen V
AU: Walsh Tanya
TI: Fluoride mouthrinses for preventing dental caries in children and adolescents
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2016
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Dental Caries [prevention & control];Fluorides [administration & dosage];Mouthwashes [administration & dosage];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: ORAL
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002284.pub2
AB: Background: Fluoride mouthrinses have been used extensively as a caries-preventive intervention in school-based programmes and by individuals at home. This is an update of the Cochrane review of fluoride mouthrinses for preventing dental caries in children and adolescents that was first published in 2003.Objectives: The primary objective is to determine the effectiveness and safety of fluoride mouthrinses in preventing dental caries in the child and adolescent population.The secondary objective is to examine whether the effect of fluoride rinses is influenced by:? initial level of caries severity;  ? background exposure to fluoride in water (or salt), toothpastes or reported fluoride sources other than the study option(s); or  ? fluoride concentration (ppm F) or frequency of use (times per year).Search methods: We searched the following electronic databases: Cochrane Oral Health's Trials Register (whole database, to 22 April 2016), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (the Cochrane Library, 2016, Issue 3), MEDLINE Ovid (1946 to 22 April 2016), Embase Ovid (1980 to 22 April 2016), CINAHL EBSCO (the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, 1937 to 22 April 2016), LILACS BIREME (Latin American and Caribbean Health Science Information Database, 1982 to 22 April 2016), BBO BIREME (Bibliografia Brasileira de Odontologia; from 1986 to 22 April 2016), Proquest Dissertations and Theses (1861 to 22 April 2016) and Web of Science Conference Proceedings (1990 to 22 April 2016). We undertook a search for ongoing trials on the US National Institutes of Health Trials Register (http://clinicaltrials.gov) and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We placed no restrictions on language or date of publication when searching electronic databases. We also searched reference lists of articles and contacted selected authors and manufacturers.Selection criteria: Randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials where blind outcome assessment was stated or indicated, comparing fluoride mouthrinse with placebo or no treatment in children up to 16 years of age. Study duration had to be at least one year. The main outcome was caries increment measured by the change in decayed, missing and filled tooth surfaces in permanent teeth (D(M)FS).Data collection and analysis: At least two review authors independently performed study selection, data extraction and risk of bias assessment. We contacted study authors for additional information when required. The primary measure of effect was the prevented fraction (PF), that is, the difference in mean caries increments between treatment and control groups expressed as a percentage of the mean increment in the control group. We conducted random-effects meta-analyses where data could be pooled. We examined potential sources of heterogeneity in random-effects metaregression analyses. We collected adverse effects information from the included trials.Main results: In this review, we included 37 trials involving 15,813 children and adolescents. All trials tested supervised use of fluoride mouthrinse in schools, with two studies also including home use. Almost all children received a fluoride rinse formulated with sodium fluoride (NaF), mostly on either a daily or weekly/fortnightly basis and at two main strengths, 230 or 900 ppm F, respectively. Most studies (28) were at high risk of bias, and nine were at unclear risk of bias.From the 35 trials (15,305 participants) that contributed data on permanent tooth surface for meta-analysis, the D(M)FS pooled PF was 27% (95% confidence interval (CI), 23% to 30%; I2 = 42%) (moderate quality evidence). We found no significant association between estimates of D(M)FS prevented fractions and baseline caries severity, background exposure to fluorides, rinsing frequency or fluoride concentration in metaregression analyses. A funnel plot of the 35 studies in the D(M)FS PF meta-analysis indicated no relationship between prevented fraction and study precision (no evidence of reporting bias). The pooled estimate of D(M)FT PF was 23% (95% CI, 18% to 29%; I² = 54%), from the 13 trials that contributed data for the permanent teeth meta-analysis (moderate quality evidence).We found limited information concerning possible adverse effects or acceptability of the treatment regimen in the included trials. Three trials incompletely reported data on tooth staining, and one trial incompletely reported information on mucosal irritation/allergic reaction. None of the trials reported on acute adverse symptoms during treatment.Authors' conclusions: This review found that supervised regular use of fluoride mouthrinse by children and adolescents is associated with a large reduction in caries increment in permanent teeth. We are moderately certain of the size of the effect. Most of the evidence evaluated use of fluoride mouthrinse supervised in a school setting, but the findings may be applicable to children in other settings with supervised or unsupervised rinsing, although the size of the caries-preventive effect is less clear. Any future research on fluoride mouthrinses should focus on head-to-head comparisons between different fluoride rinse features or fluoride rinses against other preventive strategies, and should evaluate adverse effects and acceptability.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD002284.pub2/abstract


Record #47 of 54
ID: CD010523
AU: Coulter Angela
AU: Entwistle Vikki A
AU: Eccles Abi
AU: Ryan Sara
AU: Shepperd Sasha
AU: Perera Rafael
TI: Personalised care planning for adults with chronic or long-term health conditions
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 3
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Patient Care Planning;Asthma [therapy];Chronic Disease [therapy];Diabetes Mellitus [blood] [therapy];Health Status;Heart Failure [therapy];Hemoglobin A, Glycosylated [analysis];Kidney Failure, Chronic [therapy];Mental Disorders [therapy];Patient Participation;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Self Care;Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: COMMUN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010523.pub2
AB: Background: Personalised care planning is a collaborative process used in chronic condition management in which patients and clinicians identify and discuss problems caused by or related to the patient's condition, and develop a plan for tackling these. In essence it is a conversation, or series of conversations, in which they jointly agree goals and actions for managing the patient's condition.Objectives: To assess the effects of personalised care planning for adults with long-term health conditions compared to usual care (i.e. forms of care in which active involvement of patients in treatment and management decisions is not explicitly attempted or achieved).Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, ProQuest, clinicaltrials.gov and WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform to July 2013.Selection criteria: We included randomised controlled trials and cluster-randomised trials involving adults with long-term conditions where the intervention included collaborative (between individual patients and clinicians) goal setting and action planning. We excluded studies where there was little or no opportunity for the patient to have meaningful influence on goal selection, choice of treatment or support package, or both.Data collection and analysis: Two of three review authors independently screened citations for inclusion, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias. The primary outcomes were effects on physical health, psychological health, subjective health status, and capabilities for self management. Secondary outcomes included effects on health-related behaviours, resource use and costs, and type of intervention. A patient advisory group of people with experience of living with long-term conditions advised on various aspects of the review, including the protocol, selection of outcome measures and emerging findings.Main results: We included 19 studies involving a total of 10,856 participants. Twelve of these studies focused on diabetes, three on mental health, one on heart failure, one on end-stage renal disease, one on asthma, and one on various chronic conditions. All 19 studies included components that were intended to support behaviour change among patients, involving either face-to-face or telephone support. All but three of the personalised care planning interventions took place in primary care or community settings; the remaining three were located in hospital clinics. There was some concern about risk of bias for each of the included studies in respect of one or more criteria, usually due to inadequate or unclear descriptions of research methods. Physical healthNine studies measured glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c), giving a combined mean difference (MD) between intervention and control of -0.24% (95% confidence interval (CI) -0.35 to -0.14), a small positive effect in favour of personalised care planning compared to usual care (moderate quality evidence).Six studies measured systolic blood pressure, a combined mean difference of -2.64 mm/Hg (95% CI -4.47 to -0.82) favouring personalised care (moderate quality evidence). The pooled results from four studies showed no significant effect on diastolic blood pressure, MD -0.71 mm/Hg (95% CI -2.26 to 0.84).We found no evidence of an effect on cholesterol (LDL-C), standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.01 (95% CI -0.09 to 0.11) (five studies) or body mass index, MD -0.11 (95% CI -0.35 to 0.13) (four studies).A single study of people with asthma reported that personalised care planning led to improvements in lung function and asthma control. Psychological healthSix studies measured depression. We were able to pool results from five of these, giving an SMD of -0.36 (95% CI -0.52 to -0.20), a small effect in favour of personalised care (moderate quality evidence). The remaining study found greater improvement in the control group than the intervention group.Four other studies used a variety of psychological measures that were conceptually different so could not be pooled. Of these, three found greater improvement for the personalised care group than the usual care group and one was too small to detect differences in outcomes. Subjective health statusTen studies used various patient-reported measures of health status (or health-related quality of life), including both generic health status measures and condition-specific ones. We were able to pool data from three studies that used the SF-36 or SF-12, but found no effect on the physical component summary score SMD 0.16 (95% CI -0.05 to 0.38) or the mental component summary score SMD 0.07 (95% CI -0.15 to 0.28) (moderate quality evidence). Of the three other studies that measured generic health status, two found improvements related to personalised care and one did not.Four studies measured condition-specific health status. The combined results showed no difference between the intervention and control groups, SMD -0.01 (95% CI -0.11 to 0.10) (moderate quality evidence). Self-management capabilitiesNine studies looked at the effect of personalised care on self-management capabilities using a variety of outcome measures, but they focused primarily on self efficacy. We were able to pool results from five studies that measured self efficacy, giving a small positive result in favour of personalised care planning: SMD 0.25 (95% CI 0.07 to 0.43) (moderate quality evidence).A further five studies measured other attributes that contribute to self-management capabilities. The results from these were mixed: two studies found evidence of an effect on patient activation, one found an effect on empowerment, and one found improvements in perceived interpersonal support. Other outcomesPooled data from five studies on exercise levels showed no effect due to personalised care planning, but there was a positive effect on people's self-reported ability to carry out self-care activities: SMD 0.35 (95% CI 0.17 to 0.52).We found no evidence of adverse effects due to personalised care planning.The effects of personalised care planning were greater when more stages of the care planning cycle were completed, when contacts between patients and health professionals were more frequent, and when the patient's usual clinician was involved in the process.Authors' conclusions: Personalised care planning leads to improvements in certain indicators of physical and psychological health status, and people's capability to self-manage their condition when compared to usual care. The effects are not large, but they appear greater when the intervention is more comprehensive, more intensive, and better integrated into routine care.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD010523.pub2/abstract


Record #48 of 54
ID: CD009080
AU: Parravano Mariacristina
AU: Giansanti Fabrizio
AU: Eandi Chiara M
AU: Yap Yew C
AU: Rizzo Stanislao
AU: Virgili Gianni
TI: Vitrectomy for idiopathic macular hole
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 5
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Visual Acuity;Cataract Extraction [statistics & numerical data];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Retinal Detachment [epidemiology];Retinal Perforations [surgery];Vitrectomy [adverse effects] [methods];Watchful Waiting;Humans[checkword]
CC: EYES
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009080.pub2
AB: Background: A macular hole is an anatomic opening in the retina that develops at the fovea. Macular holes can be seen in highly myopic eyes or following ocular trauma, but the great majority are idiopathic. Pars plana vitrectomy was introduced to treat full-thickness macular holes, which if left untreated have a poor prognosis since spontaneous closure and visual recovery are rare.Vitrectomy is a surgical technique involving the removal of the vitreous body that fills the eye. The surgeon inserts thin cannulas into the eyes through scleral incisions to relieve traction exerted by the vitreous or epiretinal membranes to the central retina and to induce glial tissue to bridge and close the hole.Objectives: The primary objective of this review was to examine the effects of vitrectomy for idiopathic macular hole on visual acuity. A secondary objective was to investigate anatomic effects on hole closure and other dimensions of visual function, as well as to report on adverse effects recorded in included studies.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group Trials Register (4 March 2015), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2015, Issue 2), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to March 2015), EMBASE (January 1980 to March 2015), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature Database (LILACS) (January 1982 to March 2015), the Web of Science Conference Proceedings Citation Index-Science (CPCI-S) (January 1980 to March 2015), the ISRCTN registry (www.isrctn.com/editAdvancedSearch), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the electronic databases on 4 March 2015.Selection criteria: We included randomised controlled trials comparing vitrectomy (with or without internal limiting membrane peeling) to no treatment (that is observation) for macular holes.Data collection and analysis: We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Two review authors independently extracted the data. We estimated best corrected visual acuity and macular hole closure at 6 to 12 months of follow-up.Main results: Three studies provided data on the comparison between vitrectomy and observation in eyes with macular hole and visual acuity less than 20/50. Two studies, conducted in the USA and published in 1996 and 1997, used a similar protocol and included participants with stage II macular hole (42 eyes randomised, 36 analysed, number of participants not reported) or participants with stage III/IV hole (129 eyes of 120 participants, 115 eyes in analyses). The third study, conducted in the UK and published in 2004, included 185 eyes of 174 participants with full-thickness macular hole (41 eyes with stage II holes and 74 eyes with stage III/IV holes in analyses). Studies were of good quality for randomisation and allocation concealment, whereas visual acuity measurement was unmasked.At 6 to 12 months, visual acuity was improved by about 1.5 Snellen lines (-0.16 logMAR, 95% confidence intervals -0.23 to -0.09 logMAR, 270 eyes, moderate-quality evidence). The chances of macular hole closure at 6 to 12 months were greatly increased using vitrectomy, yielding an odds ratio of 31.4 (95% confidence intervals 14.9 to 66.3, 265 eyes, high-quality evidence; raw sum data: 76% vitrectomy, 11% observation). Vitrectomy was beneficial both in smaller (stage II) and in larger (stage III/IV) macular holes.The largest study reported that cataract surgery was needed in about half of cases at two years after operation and that retinal detachment occurred in about 5% of operated eyes.Authors' conclusions: Vitrectomy is effective in improving visual acuity, resulting in a moderate visual gain, and in achieving hole closure in people with macular hole. However, these results may not apply to modern surgery due to technological improvements in vitrectomy techniques.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD009080.pub2/abstract


Record #49 of 54
ID: CD005315
AU: Drahota Amy
AU: Ward Derek
AU: Mackenzie Heather
AU: Stores Rebecca
AU: Higgins Bernie
AU: Gal Diane
AU: Dean Taraneh P
TI: Sensory environment on health-related outcomes of hospital patients
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2012
NO: 3
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Health Facility Environment;Interior Design and Furnishings;Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care);Air Pollution, Indoor;Inpatients [psychology];Lighting;Music [psychology];Odors;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Temperature;Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: EPOC
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005315.pub2
AB: Background: Hospital environments have recently received renewed interest, with considerable investments into building and renovating healthcare estates. Understanding the effectiveness of environmental interventions is important for resource utilisation and providing quality care.Objectives: To assess the effect of hospital environments on adult patient health-related outcomes.Search methods: We searched: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (last searched January 2006); MEDLINE (1902 to December 2006); EMBASE (January 1980 to February 2006); 14 other databases covering health, psychology, and the built environment; reference lists; and organisation websites. This review is currently being updated (MEDLINE last search October 2010), see Studies awaiting classification.Selection criteria: Randomised and non-randomised controlled trials, controlled before-and-after studies, and interrupted times series of environmental interventions in adult hospital patients reporting health-related outcomes.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors independently undertook data extraction and 'Risk of bias' assessment. We contacted authors to obtain missing information. For continuous variables, we calculated a mean difference (MD) or standardized mean difference (SMD), and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for each study. For dichotomous variables, we calculated a risk ratio (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). When appropriate, we used a random-effects model of meta-analysis. Heterogeneity was explored qualitatively and quantitatively based on risk of bias, case mix, hospital visit characteristics, and country of study.Main results: Overall, 102 studies have been included in this review. Interventions explored were: 'positive distracters', to include aromas (two studies), audiovisual distractions (five studies), decoration (one study), and music (85 studies); interventions to reduce environmental stressors through physical changes, to include air quality (three studies), bedroom type (one study), flooring (two studies), furniture and furnishings (one study), lighting (one study), and temperature (one study); and multifaceted interventions (two studies). We did not find any studies meeting the inclusion criteria to evaluate: art, access to nature for example, through hospital gardens, atriums, flowers, and plants, ceilings, interventions to reduce hospital noise, patient controls, technologies, way-finding aids, or the provision of windows. Overall, it appears that music may improve patient-reported outcomes such as anxiety; however, the benefit for physiological outcomes, and medication consumption has less support. There are few studies to support or refute the implementation of physical changes, and except for air quality, the included studies demonstrated that physical changes to the hospital environment at least did no harm.Authors' conclusions: Music may improve patient-reported outcomes in certain circumstances, so support for this relatively inexpensive intervention may be justified. For some environmental interventions, well designed research studies have yet to take place.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD005315.pub2/abstract


Record #50 of 54
ID: CD002212
AU: Flodgren Gerd
AU: Rojas-Reyes Maria Ximena
AU: Cole Nick
AU: Foxcroft David R
TI: Effectiveness of organisational infrastructures to promote evidence-based nursing practice
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2012
NO: 2
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Efficiency, Organizational;Evidence-Based Nursing [methods];Nursing Care [standards];Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care) [standards];Pressure Ulcer [prevention & control];Humans[checkword]
CC: EPOC
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002212.pub2
AB: Background: Nurses and midwives form the bulk of the clinical health workforce and play a central role in all health service delivery. There is potential to improve health care quality if nurses routinely use the best available evidence in their clinical practice. Since many of the factors perceived by nurses as barriers to the implementation of evidence-based practice (EBP) lie at the organisational level, it is of interest to devise and assess the effectiveness of organisational infrastructures designed to promote EBP among nurses.Objectives: To assess the effectiveness of organisational infrastructures in promoting evidence-based nursing.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care (EPOC) Group Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, LILACS, BIREME, IBECS, NHS Economic Evaluations Database, Social Science Citation Index, Science Citation Index and Conference Proceedings Citation Indexes up to 9 March 2011.We developed a new search strategy for this update as the strategy published in 2003 omitted key terms. Additional search methods included: screening reference lists of relevant studies, contacting authors of relevant papers regarding any further published or unpublished work, and searching websites of selected research groups and organisations. Selection criteria: We considered randomised controlled trials, controlled clinical trials, interrupted times series (ITSs) and controlled before and after studies of an entire or identified component of an organisational infrastructure intervention aimed at promoting EBP in nursing. The participants were all healthcare organisations comprising nurses, midwives and health visitors.Data collection and analysis: Two authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias. For the ITS analysis, we reported the change in the slopes of the regression lines, and the change in the level effect of the outcome at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months follow-up.Main results: We included one study from the USA (re-analysed as an ITS) involving one hospital and an unknown number of nurses and patients. The study evaluated the effects of a standardised evidence-based nursing procedure on nursing care for patients at risk of developing healthcare-acquired pressure ulcers (HAPUs). If a patient's admission Braden score was below or equal to 18 (i.e. indicating a high risk of developing pressure ulcers), nurses were authorised to initiate a pressure ulcer prevention bundle (i.e. a set of evidence-based clinical interventions) without waiting for a physician order. Re-analysis of data as a time series showed that against a background trend of decreasing HAPU rates, if that trend was assumed to be real, there was no evidence of an intervention effect at three months (mean rate per quarter 0.7%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.7 to 3.3; P = 0.457). Given the small percentages post intervention it was not statistically possible to extrapolate effects beyond three months.Authors' conclusions: Despite extensive searching of published and unpublished research we identified only one low-quality study; we excluded many studies due to non-eligible study design. If policy-makers and healthcare organisations wish to promote evidence-based nursing successfully at an organisational level, they must ensure the funding and conduct of well-designed studies to generate evidence to guide policy.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD002212.pub2/abstract


Record #51 of 54
ID: CD006525
AU: Archer Janine
AU: Bower Peter
AU: Gilbody Simon
AU: Lovell Karina
AU: Richards David
AU: Gask Linda
AU: Dickens Chris
AU: Coventry Peter
TI: Collaborative care for depression and anxiety problems
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2012
NO: 10
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Interprofessional Relations;Anxiety [therapy];Case Management [organization & administration];Depression [therapy];Patient Care Team [organization & administration];Primary Health Care [organization & administration];Psychiatric Nursing;Psychiatry;Psychology;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Standard of Care;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
CC: DEPRESSN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006525.pub2
AB: Background: Common mental health problems, such as depression and anxiety, are estimated to affect up to 15% of the UK population at any one time, and health care systems worldwide need to implement interventions to reduce the impact and burden of these conditions. Collaborative care is a complex intervention based on chronic disease management models that may be effective in the management of these common mental health problems.Objectives: To assess the effectiveness of collaborative care for patients with depression or anxiety.Search methods: We searched the following databases to February 2012: The Cochrane Collaboration Depression, Anxiety and Neurosis Group (CCDAN) trials registers (CCDANCTR-References and CCDANCTR-Studies) which include relevant randomised controlled trials (RCTs) from MEDLINE (1950 to present), EMBASE (1974 to present), PsycINFO (1967 to present) and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, all years); the World Health Organization (WHO) trials portal (ICTRP); ClinicalTrials.gov; and CINAHL (to November 2010 only). We screened the reference lists of reports of all included studies and published systematic reviews for reports of additional studies.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of collaborative care for participants of all ages with depression or anxiety.Data collection and analysis: Two independent researchers extracted data using a standardised data extraction sheet. Two independent researchers made 'Risk of bias' assessments using criteria from The Cochrane Collaboration. We combined continuous measures of outcome using standardised mean differences (SMDs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We combined dichotomous measures using risk ratios (RRs) with 95% CIs. Sensitivity analyses tested the robustness of the results.Main results: We included seventy-nine RCTs (including 90 relevant comparisons) involving 24,308 participants in the review. Studies varied in terms of risk of bias.The results of primary analyses demonstrated significantly greater improvement in depression outcomes for adults with depression treated with the collaborative care model in the short-term (SMD -0.34, 95% CI -0.41 to -0.27; RR 1.32, 95% CI 1.22 to 1.43), medium-term (SMD -0.28, 95% CI -0.41 to -0.15; RR 1.31, 95% CI 1.17 to 1.48), and long-term (SMD -0.35, 95% CI -0.46 to -0.24; RR 1.29, 95% CI 1.18 to 1.41). However, these significant benefits were not demonstrated into the very long-term (RR 1.12, 95% CI 0.98 to 1.27).The results also demonstrated significantly greater improvement in anxiety outcomes for adults with anxiety treated with the collaborative care model in the short-term (SMD -0.30, 95% CI -0.44 to -0.17; RR 1.50, 95% CI 1.21 to 1.87), medium-term (SMD -0.33, 95% CI -0.47 to -0.19; RR 1.41, 95% CI 1.18 to 1.69), and long-term (SMD -0.20, 95% CI -0.34 to -0.06; RR 1.26, 95% CI 1.11 to 1.42). No comparisons examined the effects of the intervention on anxiety outcomes in the very long-term.There was evidence of benefit in secondary outcomes including medication use, mental health quality of life, and patient satisfaction, although there was less evidence of benefit in physical quality of life.Authors' conclusions: Collaborative care is associated with significant improvement in depression and anxiety outcomes compared with usual care, and represents a useful addition to clinical pathways for adult patients with depression and anxiety.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD006525.pub2/abstract


Record #52 of 54
ID: CD011268
AU: Gartlehner Gerald
AU: Nussbaumer Barbara
AU: Gaynes Bradley N
AU: Forneris Catherine A
AU: Morgan Laura C
AU: Kaminski-Hartenthaler Angela
AU: Greenblatt Amy
AU: Wipplinger Jörg
AU: Lux Linda J
AU: Sonis Jeffrey H
AU: Hofmann Julia
AU: Van Noord Megan G
AU: Winkler Dietmar
TI: Second-generation antidepressants for preventing seasonal affective disorder in adults
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 11
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Antidepressive Agents, Second-Generation [therapeutic use];Bupropion [therapeutic use];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Seasonal Affective Disorder [epidemiology] [prevention & control];Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: DEPRESSN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011268.pub2
AB: Background: Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a seasonal pattern of recurrent major depressive episodes that most commonly occurs during autumn or winter and remits in spring. The prevalence of SAD ranges from 1.5% to 9%, depending on latitude. The predictable seasonal aspect of SAD provides a promising opportunity for prevention. This review - one of four reviews on efficacy and safety of interventions to prevent SAD - focuses on second-generation antidepressants (SGAs).Objectives: To assess the efficacy and safety of second-generation antidepressants (in comparison with other SGAs, placebo, light therapy, melatonin or agomelatine, psychological therapies or lifestyle interventions) in preventing SAD and improving patient-centred outcomes among adults with a history of SAD.Search methods: A search of the Specialised Register of the Cochrane Depression, Anxiety and Neuorosis Review Group (CCDANCTR) included all years to 11 August 2015. The CCDANCTR contains reports of randomised controlled trials derived from EMBASE (1974 to date), MEDLINE (1950 to date), PsycINFO (1967 to date) and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL). Furthermore, we searched the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Web of Knowledge, The Cochrane Library and the Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (to 26 May 2014). We also conducted a grey literature search and handsearched the reference lists of included studies and pertinent review articles.Selection criteria: For efficacy, we included randomised controlled trials on adults with a history of winter-type SAD who were free of symptoms at the beginning of the study. For adverse events, we planned to include non-randomised studies. Eligible studies compared an SGA versus another SGA, placebo, light therapy, psychological therapy, melatonin, agomelatine or lifestyle changes. We also intended to compare SGAs in combination with any of the comparator interventions versus the same comparator intervention as monotherapy.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors screened abstracts and full-text publications and assigned risk of bias ratings based on the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool. We resolved disagreements by consensus or by consultation with a third party. Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias of included studies. When data were sufficient, we conducted random-effects (Mantel-Haenszel) meta-analyses. We assessed statistical heterogeneity by calculating the Chi2 statistic and the Cochran Q. We used the I2 statistic to estimate the magnitude of heterogeneity and examined potential sources of heterogeneity using sensitivity analysis or analysis of subgroups. We assessed publication bias by using funnel plots. However, given the small number of component studies in our meta-analyses, these tests have low sensitivity to detect publication bias. We rated the strength of the evidence using the system developed by the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) Working Group.Main results: We identified 2986 citations after de-duplication of search results and excluded 2895 records during title and abstract reviews. We assessed 91 full-text papers for inclusion in the review, of which four publications (on three RCTs) providing data from 1100 people met eligibility criteria for this review. All three RCTs had methodological limitations due to high attrition rates.Overall moderate-quality evidence indicates that bupropion XL is an efficacious intervention for prevention of recurrence of depressive episodes in patients with a history of SAD (risk ratio (RR) 0.56, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.44 to 0.72; three RCTs, 1100 participants). However, bupropion XL leads to greater risk of headaches (moderate-quality evidence), insomnia and nausea (both low-quality evidence) when compared with placebo. Numbers needed to treat for additional beneficial outcomes (NNTBs) vary by baseline risks. For a population with a yearly recurrence rate of 30%, the NNTB is 8 (95% CI 6 to 12). For populations with yearly recurrence rates of 40% and 50%, NNTBs are 6 (95% CI 5 to 9) and 5 (95% CI 4 to 7), respectively.We could find no studies on other SGAs and no studies comparing SGAs with other interventions of interest such as light therapy, psychological therapies, melatonin or agomelatine.Authors' conclusions: Available evidence indicates that bupropion XL is an effective intervention for prevention of recurrence of SAD. Nevertheless, even in a high-risk population, four of five patients will not benefit from preventive treatment with bupropion XL and will be at risk for harm. Clinicians need to discuss with patients advantages and disadvantages of preventive SGA treatment and might want to consider offering other potentially efficacious interventions, which might confer lower risk of adverse events. Given the lack of comparative evidence, the decision for or against initiating preventive treatment of SAD and the treatment selected should be strongly based on patient preferences.Future researchers need to assess the effectiveness and risk of harms of SGAs other than bupropion for prevention of SAD. Investigators also need to compare benefits and harms of pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD011268.pub2/abstract


Record #53 of 54
ID: CD006327
AU: Henderson Amanda
AU: Henderson Simon
TI: Provision of a surgeon's performance data for people considering elective surgery
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2015
NO: 2
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Professional Competence;Elective Surgical Procedures [standards];Specialties, Surgical [standards];Humans[checkword]
CC: COMMUN
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006327.pub3
AB: Background: A consumer model of health supports that people undergoing elective surgery should be informed about the past operative performance of their surgeon before making two important decisions: 1. to consent to the proposed surgery, and 2. to have a particular doctor perform the surgery. This information arguably helps empower patients to participate in their care. While surgeons' performance data are available in some settings, there continues to be controversy over the provision of such data to patients, and the question of whether consumers should, or want to, be provided with this information.Objectives: To assess the effects of providing a surgeon's performance data to people considering elective surgery on patient-based and service utilisation outcomes.Search methods: For the original review, we searched: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library, 2009, Issue 4); MEDLINE (Ovid) (1950 to 28 September 2009); EMBASE (Ovid) (1988 to 28 September 2009); PsycINFO (Ovid) (1806 to 28 September 2009); CINAHL (EBSCO) (1982 to 20 October 2009); Current Contents (Ovid) (1992 to 23 November 2009); and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses (1861 to 20 October 2009).For this update, we searched: CENTRAL (2009 to 3 March 2014); MEDLINE (Ovid) (2009 to 3 March 2014); EMBASE (Ovid) (2009 to 3 March 2014); PsycINFO (Ovid) (2009 to 9 March 2014); CINAHL (EBSCO) (2009 to 9 March 2014), Current Contents (Web of Science) (November 2009 to 21 March 2014), and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses (2009 to 21 March 2014). We applied no language restrictions.Selection criteria: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster RCTs, quasi-RCTs and controlled before and after studies (CBAs), in which an individual surgeon's performance data were provided to people considering elective surgery. We considered the CBAs for inclusion from 2009 onwards.Data collection and analysis: Two review authors (AH, SH) independently assessed all titles, abstracts, or both of retrieved citations. We identified no studies for inclusion. Consequently, we conducted no data collection or analysis.Main results: We found no studies that met the inclusion criteria; therefore, there are no results to report on the effect of the provision of a surgeon's performance data for people considering elective surgery.Authors' conclusions: We found no studies reporting the impact of the provision of a surgeon's performance data for people considering elective surgery. This is an important finding in itself. While the public reporting of a surgeon's performance is not a new concept, the efficacy of this data for individual patients has not been empirically tested. A review of qualitative studies or new primary qualitative research may be useful to determine what interventions are currently in use and explore the attitudes of consumers and professionals towards such interventions.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD006327.pub3/abstract


Record #54 of 54
ID: CD002279
AU: Marinho Valeria CC
AU: Worthington Helen V
AU: Walsh Tanya
AU: Clarkson Jan E
TI: Fluoride varnishes for preventing dental caries in children and adolescents
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
YR: 2013
NO: 7
PB: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
KY: Dental Caries [prevention & control];Dentition, Permanent;Fluorides, Topical [administration & dosage] [adverse effects];Mouth, Edentulous [epidemiology];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Tooth, Deciduous;Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Humans[checkword]
CC: ORAL
DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002279.pub2
AB: Background: Topically-applied fluoride varnishes have been used extensively as an operator-applied caries-preventive intervention for over three decades. This review updates the first Cochrane review of fluoride varnishes for preventing dental caries in children and adolescents, which was first published in 2002.Objectives: To determine the effectiveness and safety of fluoride varnishes in preventing dental caries in children and adolescents, and to examine factors potentially modifying their effect.Search methods: We searched the Cochrane Oral Health Group's Trials Register (to 13 May 2013), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2013, Issue 4), MEDLINE via OVID (1946 to 13 May 2013), EMBASE via OVID (1980 to 13 May 2013), CINAHL via EBSCO (1980 to 13 May 2013), LILACS and BBO via the BIREME Virtual Health Library (1980 to 13 May 2013), ProQuest Dissertations and Theses (1861 to 13 May 2013), and Web of Science Conference Proceedings (1945 to 13 May 2013). A search for ongoing trials was undertaken on ClinicalTrials.gov on 13 May 2013. There were no restrictions on language or date of publication in the search of the electronic databases.Selection criteria: Randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials with blind outcome assessment used or indicated, comparing topically-applied fluoride varnish with placebo or no treatment in children up to 16 years during at least one year. The main outcome was caries increment measured by the change in decayed, missing and filled tooth surfaces in both permanent (D(M)FS) and primary (d(e/m)fs) teeth.Data collection and analysis: At least two review authors assessed all search results, extracted data and undertook risk of bias independently. Study authors were contacted for additional information. The primary measure of effect was the prevented fraction, that is the difference in mean caries increments between the treatment and control groups expressed as a percentage of the mean increment in the control group. The caries increments nearest to three years were used from each included study. Random-effects meta-analyses were performed where data could be pooled. Potential sources of heterogeneity were examined in random-effects meta-regression analyses. Adverse effects information was collected from the included trials.Main results: Twenty-two trials with 12,455 participants randomised (9595 used in analyses) were included. For the 13 that contributed data for the permanent tooth surfaces meta-analysis, the pooled D(M)FS prevented fraction estimate comparing fluoride varnish with placebo or no treatment was 43% (95% confidence interval (CI) 30% to 57%; P < 0.0001). There was substantial heterogeneity, confirmed statistically (P < 0.0001; I2 = 75%), however this body of evidence was assessed as of moderate quality. The pooled d(e/m)fs prevented fraction estimate was 37% (95% CI 24% to 51%; P < 0.0001) for the 10 trials that contributed data for the primary tooth surfaces meta-analysis, also with some heterogeneity (P = 0.009; I2 = 59%). Once again this body of evidence was assessed as of moderate quality. No significant association between estimates of D(M)FS or d(e/m)fs prevented fractions and the pre-specified factors of baseline caries severity, background exposure to fluorides, application features such as prior prophylaxis, concentration of fluoride, frequency of application were found. There was also no significant association between estimates of D(M)FS or d(e/m)fs prevented fractions and the post hoc factors: whether a placebo or no treatment control was used, length of follow-up, or whether individual or cluster randomisation was used, in the meta-regression models. A funnel plot of the trials in the main meta-analyses indicated no clear relationship between prevented fraction and study precision. In both methods, power is limited when few trials are included. There was little information concerning possible adverse effects or acceptability of treatment.Authors' conclusions: The conclusions of this updated review remain the same as those when it was first published. The review suggests a substantial caries-inhibiting effect of fluoride varnish in both permanent and primary teeth, however the quality of the evidence was assessed as moderate, as it included mainly high risk of bias studies, with considerable heterogeneity.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD002279.pub2/abstract


